{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed and comprehensive overview of the historical developments in astronomy before Kepler's reforms, covering the transition from mythological interpretations to geometric explanations, key figures like Pythagoras, Plato, Eudoxus, Aristotle, and Aristarchus, and the challenges and advancements in understanding celestial motions.","original_text":"In order to emphasise the importance of the reforms introduced into astronomy by Kepler, it will be well to sketch briefly the history of the theories which he had to overthrow. In very early times it must have been realised that the sun and moon were continually changing their places among the stars. The day, the month, and the year were obvious divisions of time, and longer periods were suggested by the tabulation of eclipses. We can imagine the respect accorded to the Chaldaean sages who first discovered that eclipses could be predicted, and how the philosophers of Mesopotamia must have sought eagerly for evidence of fresh periodic laws. Certain of the stars, which appeared to wander, and were hence called planets, provided an extended field for these speculations. Among the Chaldaeans and Babylonians the knowledge gradually acquired was probably confined to the priests and utilised mainly for astrological prediction or the fixing of religious observances. Such speculations as were current among them, and also among the Egyptians and others who came to share their knowledge, were almost entirely devoted to mythology, assigning fanciful terrestrial origins to constellations, with occasional controversies as to how the earth is supported in space. The Greeks, too, had an elaborate mythology largely adapted from their neighbours, but they were not satisfied with this, and made persistent attempts to reduce the apparent motions of celestial objects to geometrical laws. Some of the Pythagoreans, if not Pythagoras himself, held that the earth is a sphere, and that the apparent daily revolution of the sun and stars is really due to a motion of the earth, though at first this motion of the earth was not supposed to be one of rotation about an axis. These notions, and also that the planets on the whole move round from west to east with reference to the stars, were made known to a larger circle through the writings of Plato. To Plato moreover is attributed the challenge to astronomers to represent all the motions of the heavenly bodies by uniformly described circles, a challenge generally held responsible for a vast amount of wasted effort, and the postponement, for many centuries, of real progress. Eudoxus of Cnidus, endeavouring to account for the fact that the planets, during every apparent revolution round the earth, come to rest twice, and in the shorter interval between these \"stationary points,\" move in the opposite direction, found that he could represent the phenomena fairly well by a system of concentric spheres, each rotating with its own velocity, and carrying its own particular planet round its own equator, the outermost sphere carrying the fixed stars. It was necessary to assume that the axes about which the various spheres revolved should have circular motions also, and gradually an increased number of spheres was evolved, the total number required by Aristotle reaching fifty-five. It may be regarded as counting in Aristotle's favour that he did consider the earth to be a sphere and not a flat disc, but he seems to have thought that the mathematical spheres of Eudoxus had a real solid existence, and that not only meteors, shooting stars and aurora, but also comets and the milky way belong to the atmosphere. His really great service to science in collating and criticising all that was known of natural science would have been greater if so much of the discussion had not been on the exact meaning of words used to describe phenomena, instead of on the facts and causes of the phenomena themselves.\nAristarchus of Samos seems to have been the first to suggest that the planets revolved not about the earth but about the sun, but the idea seemed so improbable that it was hardly noticed, especially as Aristarchus himself did not expand it into a treatise.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the historical progression of astronomical theories before Kepler, covering the transition from mythological interpretations to early scientific explanations, the influence of Pythagorean and Platonic ideas, the limitations of Aristotle's model, and the early heliocentric proposal by Aristarchus.","original_text":"In order to emphasise the importance of the reforms introduced into astronomy by Kepler, it will be well to sketch briefly the history of the theories which he had to overthrow. In very early times it must have been realised that the sun and moon were continually changing their places among the stars. The day, the month, and the year were obvious divisions of time, and longer periods were suggested by the tabulation of eclipses. We can imagine the respect accorded to the Chaldaean sages who first discovered that eclipses could be predicted, and how the philosophers of Mesopotamia must have sought eagerly for evidence of fresh periodic laws. Certain of the stars, which appeared to wander, and were hence called planets, provided an extended field for these speculations. Among the Chaldaeans and Babylonians the knowledge gradually acquired was probably confined to the priests and utilised mainly for astrological prediction or the fixing of religious observances. Such speculations as were current among them, and also among the Egyptians and others who came to share their knowledge, were almost entirely devoted to mythology, assigning fanciful terrestrial origins to constellations, with occasional controversies as to how the earth is supported in space. The Greeks, too, had an elaborate mythology largely adapted from their neighbours, but they were not satisfied with this, and made persistent attempts to reduce the apparent motions of celestial objects to geometrical laws. Some of the Pythagoreans, if not Pythagoras himself, held that the earth is a sphere, and that the apparent daily revolution of the sun and stars is really due to a motion of the earth, though at first this motion of the earth was not supposed to be one of rotation about an axis. These notions, and also that the planets on the whole move round from west to east with reference to the stars, were made known to a larger circle through the writings of Plato. To Plato moreover is attributed the challenge to astronomers to represent all the motions of the heavenly bodies by uniformly described circles, a challenge generally held responsible for a vast amount of wasted effort, and the postponement, for many centuries, of real progress. Eudoxus of Cnidus, endeavouring to account for the fact that the planets, during every apparent revolution round the earth, come to rest twice, and in the shorter interval between these \"stationary points,\" move in the opposite direction, found that he could represent the phenomena fairly well by a system of concentric spheres, each rotating with its own velocity, and carrying its own particular planet round its own equator, the outermost sphere carrying the fixed stars. It was necessary to assume that the axes about which the various spheres revolved should have circular motions also, and gradually an increased number of spheres was evolved, the total number required by Aristotle reaching fifty-five. It may be regarded as counting in Aristotle's favour that he did consider the earth to be a sphere and not a flat disc, but he seems to have thought that the mathematical spheres of Eudoxus had a real solid existence, and that not only meteors, shooting stars and aurora, but also comets and the milky way belong to the atmosphere. His really great service to science in collating and criticising all that was known of natural science would have been greater if so much of the discussion had not been on the exact meaning of words used to describe phenomena, instead of on the facts and causes of the phenomena themselves.\nAristarchus of Samos seems to have been the first to suggest that the planets revolved not about the earth but about the sun, but the idea seemed so improbable that it was hardly noticed, especially as Aristarchus himself did not expand it into a treatise.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the historical progression of astronomical theories before Kepler, covering topics such as the early observations of celestial bodies, the transition from mythological to geometric explanations, and the contributions of key figures like Plato, Eudoxus, and Aristarchus. It provides a detailed account of the developments that Kepler's reforms aimed to address.","original_text":"In order to emphasise the importance of the reforms introduced into astronomy by Kepler, it will be well to sketch briefly the history of the theories which he had to overthrow. In very early times it must have been realised that the sun and moon were continually changing their places among the stars. The day, the month, and the year were obvious divisions of time, and longer periods were suggested by the tabulation of eclipses. We can imagine the respect accorded to the Chaldaean sages who first discovered that eclipses could be predicted, and how the philosophers of Mesopotamia must have sought eagerly for evidence of fresh periodic laws. Certain of the stars, which appeared to wander, and were hence called planets, provided an extended field for these speculations. Among the Chaldaeans and Babylonians the knowledge gradually acquired was probably confined to the priests and utilised mainly for astrological prediction or the fixing of religious observances. Such speculations as were current among them, and also among the Egyptians and others who came to share their knowledge, were almost entirely devoted to mythology, assigning fanciful terrestrial origins to constellations, with occasional controversies as to how the earth is supported in space. The Greeks, too, had an elaborate mythology largely adapted from their neighbours, but they were not satisfied with this, and made persistent attempts to reduce the apparent motions of celestial objects to geometrical laws. Some of the Pythagoreans, if not Pythagoras himself, held that the earth is a sphere, and that the apparent daily revolution of the sun and stars is really due to a motion of the earth, though at first this motion of the earth was not supposed to be one of rotation about an axis. These notions, and also that the planets on the whole move round from west to east with reference to the stars, were made known to a larger circle through the writings of Plato. To Plato moreover is attributed the challenge to astronomers to represent all the motions of the heavenly bodies by uniformly described circles, a challenge generally held responsible for a vast amount of wasted effort, and the postponement, for many centuries, of real progress. Eudoxus of Cnidus, endeavouring to account for the fact that the planets, during every apparent revolution round the earth, come to rest twice, and in the shorter interval between these \"stationary points,\" move in the opposite direction, found that he could represent the phenomena fairly well by a system of concentric spheres, each rotating with its own velocity, and carrying its own particular planet round its own equator, the outermost sphere carrying the fixed stars. It was necessary to assume that the axes about which the various spheres revolved should have circular motions also, and gradually an increased number of spheres was evolved, the total number required by Aristotle reaching fifty-five. It may be regarded as counting in Aristotle's favour that he did consider the earth to be a sphere and not a flat disc, but he seems to have thought that the mathematical spheres of Eudoxus had a real solid existence, and that not only meteors, shooting stars and aurora, but also comets and the milky way belong to the atmosphere. His really great service to science in collating and criticising all that was known of natural science would have been greater if so much of the discussion had not been on the exact meaning of words used to describe phenomena, instead of on the facts and causes of the phenomena themselves.\nAristarchus of Samos seems to have been the first to suggest that the planets revolved not about the earth but about the sun, but the idea seemed so improbable that it was hardly noticed, especially as Aristarchus himself did not expand it into a treatise.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the historical context of astronomy before Kepler's reforms. It highlights the early understanding of celestial movements by ancient civilizations like the Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks. The text mentions the Chaldaean sages' discovery of predicting eclipses, the Greek attempts to explain celestial motions through geometrical laws, and the challenge posed by Plato to represent celestial motions with uniformly described circles. It also touches upon Eudoxus of Cnidus's model of concentric spheres to explain planetary motions, Aristotle's belief in multiple rotating spheres, and Aristarchus of Samos's idea that planets revolve around the sun. The paragraph emphasizes the prevalent mythological interpretations of celestial phenomena and the gradual shift towards scientific inquiry in ancient astronomy.","original_text":"In order to emphasise the importance of the reforms introduced into astronomy by Kepler, it will be well to sketch briefly the history of the theories which he had to overthrow. In very early times it must have been realised that the sun and moon were continually changing their places among the stars. The day, the month, and the year were obvious divisions of time, and longer periods were suggested by the tabulation of eclipses. We can imagine the respect accorded to the Chaldaean sages who first discovered that eclipses could be predicted, and how the philosophers of Mesopotamia must have sought eagerly for evidence of fresh periodic laws. Certain of the stars, which appeared to wander, and were hence called planets, provided an extended field for these speculations. Among the Chaldaeans and Babylonians the knowledge gradually acquired was probably confined to the priests and utilised mainly for astrological prediction or the fixing of religious observances. Such speculations as were current among them, and also among the Egyptians and others who came to share their knowledge, were almost entirely devoted to mythology, assigning fanciful terrestrial origins to constellations, with occasional controversies as to how the earth is supported in space. The Greeks, too, had an elaborate mythology largely adapted from their neighbours, but they were not satisfied with this, and made persistent attempts to reduce the apparent motions of celestial objects to geometrical laws. Some of the Pythagoreans, if not Pythagoras himself, held that the earth is a sphere, and that the apparent daily revolution of the sun and stars is really due to a motion of the earth, though at first this motion of the earth was not supposed to be one of rotation about an axis. These notions, and also that the planets on the whole move round from west to east with reference to the stars, were made known to a larger circle through the writings of Plato. To Plato moreover is attributed the challenge to astronomers to represent all the motions of the heavenly bodies by uniformly described circles, a challenge generally held responsible for a vast amount of wasted effort, and the postponement, for many centuries, of real progress. Eudoxus of Cnidus, endeavouring to account for the fact that the planets, during every apparent revolution round the earth, come to rest twice, and in the shorter interval between these \"stationary points,\" move in the opposite direction, found that he could represent the phenomena fairly well by a system of concentric spheres, each rotating with its own velocity, and carrying its own particular planet round its own equator, the outermost sphere carrying the fixed stars. It was necessary to assume that the axes about which the various spheres revolved should have circular motions also, and gradually an increased number of spheres was evolved, the total number required by Aristotle reaching fifty-five. It may be regarded as counting in Aristotle's favour that he did consider the earth to be a sphere and not a flat disc, but he seems to have thought that the mathematical spheres of Eudoxus had a real solid existence, and that not only meteors, shooting stars and aurora, but also comets and the milky way belong to the atmosphere. His really great service to science in collating and criticising all that was known of natural science would have been greater if so much of the discussion had not been on the exact meaning of words used to describe phenomena, instead of on the facts and causes of the phenomena themselves.\nAristarchus of Samos seems to have been the first to suggest that the planets revolved not about the earth but about the sun, but the idea seemed so improbable that it was hardly noticed, especially as Aristarchus himself did not expand it into a treatise.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Hipparchus's contributions to astronomy, his innovative explanations for celestial motions, and the contrast with Ptolemy's work, providing a comprehensive overview of the advancements made during this period.","original_text":"About this time the necessity for more accurate places of the sun and moon, and the liberality of the Ptolemys who ruled Egypt, combined to provide regular observations at Alexandria, so that, when Hipparchus came upon the scene, there was a considerable amount of material for him to use. His discoveries marked a great advance in the science of astronomy. He noted the irregular motion of the sun, and, to explain it, assumed that it revolved uniformly not exactly about the earth but about a point some distance away, called the \"excentric\".[1] The line joining the centre of the earth to the excentric passes through the apses of the sun's orbit, where its distance from the earth is greatest and least. The same result he could obtain by assuming that the sun moved round a small circle, whose centre described a larger circle about the earth; this larger circle carrying the other was called the \"deferent\": so that the actual motion of the sun was in an epicycle. Of the two methods of expression Hipparchus ultimately preferred the second. He applied the same process to the moon but found that he could depend upon its being right only at new and full moon. The irregularity at first and third quarters he left to be investigated by his successors. He also considered the planetary observations at his disposal insufficient and so gave up the attempt at a complete planetary theory. He made improved determinations of some of the elements of the motions of the sun and moon, and discovered the Precession of the Equinoxes, from the Alexandrian observations which showed that each year as the sun came to cross the equator at the vernal equinox it did so at a point about fifty seconds of arc earlier on the ecliptic, thus producing in 150 years an unmistakable change of a couple of degrees, or four times the sun's diameter. He also invented trigonometry. His star catalogue was due to the appearance of a new star which caused him to search for possible previous similar phenomena, and also to prepare for checking future ones. No advance was made in theoretical astronomy for 260 years, the interval between Hipparchus and Ptolemy of Alexandria. Ptolemy accepted the spherical form of the earth but denied its rotation or any other movement. He made no advance on Hipparchus in regard to the sun, though the lapse of time had largely increased the errors of the elements adopted by the latter. In the case of the moon, however, Ptolemy traced the variable inequality noticed sometimes by Hipparchus at first and last quarter, which vanished when the moon was in apogee or perigee. This he called the evection, and introduced another epicycle to represent it. In his planetary theory he found that the places given by his adopted excentric did not fit, being one way at apogee and the other at perigee; so that the centre of distance must be nearer the earth. He found it best to assume the centre of distance half-way between the centre of the earth and the excentric, thus \"bisecting the excentricity\". Even this did not fit in the case of Mercury, and in general the agreement between theory and observation was spoilt by the necessity of making all the orbital planes pass through the centre of the earth, instead of the sun, thus making a good accordance practically impossible.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Hipparchus's contributions to astronomy, his innovative methods of explaining celestial motions, and the lack of major theoretical advancements until Ptolemy's era. It provides a comprehensive overview of the advancements made during this period.","original_text":"About this time the necessity for more accurate places of the sun and moon, and the liberality of the Ptolemys who ruled Egypt, combined to provide regular observations at Alexandria, so that, when Hipparchus came upon the scene, there was a considerable amount of material for him to use. His discoveries marked a great advance in the science of astronomy. He noted the irregular motion of the sun, and, to explain it, assumed that it revolved uniformly not exactly about the earth but about a point some distance away, called the \"excentric\".[1] The line joining the centre of the earth to the excentric passes through the apses of the sun's orbit, where its distance from the earth is greatest and least. The same result he could obtain by assuming that the sun moved round a small circle, whose centre described a larger circle about the earth; this larger circle carrying the other was called the \"deferent\": so that the actual motion of the sun was in an epicycle. Of the two methods of expression Hipparchus ultimately preferred the second. He applied the same process to the moon but found that he could depend upon its being right only at new and full moon. The irregularity at first and third quarters he left to be investigated by his successors. He also considered the planetary observations at his disposal insufficient and so gave up the attempt at a complete planetary theory. He made improved determinations of some of the elements of the motions of the sun and moon, and discovered the Precession of the Equinoxes, from the Alexandrian observations which showed that each year as the sun came to cross the equator at the vernal equinox it did so at a point about fifty seconds of arc earlier on the ecliptic, thus producing in 150 years an unmistakable change of a couple of degrees, or four times the sun's diameter. He also invented trigonometry. His star catalogue was due to the appearance of a new star which caused him to search for possible previous similar phenomena, and also to prepare for checking future ones. No advance was made in theoretical astronomy for 260 years, the interval between Hipparchus and Ptolemy of Alexandria. Ptolemy accepted the spherical form of the earth but denied its rotation or any other movement. He made no advance on Hipparchus in regard to the sun, though the lapse of time had largely increased the errors of the elements adopted by the latter. In the case of the moon, however, Ptolemy traced the variable inequality noticed sometimes by Hipparchus at first and last quarter, which vanished when the moon was in apogee or perigee. This he called the evection, and introduced another epicycle to represent it. In his planetary theory he found that the places given by his adopted excentric did not fit, being one way at apogee and the other at perigee; so that the centre of distance must be nearer the earth. He found it best to assume the centre of distance half-way between the centre of the earth and the excentric, thus \"bisecting the excentricity\". Even this did not fit in the case of Mercury, and in general the agreement between theory and observation was spoilt by the necessity of making all the orbital planes pass through the centre of the earth, instead of the sun, thus making a good accordance practically impossible.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Hipparchus' significant contributions to astronomy, his innovative methods in explaining celestial motions, his discoveries such as the Precession of the Equinoxes, and the subsequent developments by Ptolemy. It offers a comprehensive understanding of the advancements in astronomy during this era.","original_text":"About this time the necessity for more accurate places of the sun and moon, and the liberality of the Ptolemys who ruled Egypt, combined to provide regular observations at Alexandria, so that, when Hipparchus came upon the scene, there was a considerable amount of material for him to use. His discoveries marked a great advance in the science of astronomy. He noted the irregular motion of the sun, and, to explain it, assumed that it revolved uniformly not exactly about the earth but about a point some distance away, called the \"excentric\".[1] The line joining the centre of the earth to the excentric passes through the apses of the sun's orbit, where its distance from the earth is greatest and least. The same result he could obtain by assuming that the sun moved round a small circle, whose centre described a larger circle about the earth; this larger circle carrying the other was called the \"deferent\": so that the actual motion of the sun was in an epicycle. Of the two methods of expression Hipparchus ultimately preferred the second. He applied the same process to the moon but found that he could depend upon its being right only at new and full moon. The irregularity at first and third quarters he left to be investigated by his successors. He also considered the planetary observations at his disposal insufficient and so gave up the attempt at a complete planetary theory. He made improved determinations of some of the elements of the motions of the sun and moon, and discovered the Precession of the Equinoxes, from the Alexandrian observations which showed that each year as the sun came to cross the equator at the vernal equinox it did so at a point about fifty seconds of arc earlier on the ecliptic, thus producing in 150 years an unmistakable change of a couple of degrees, or four times the sun's diameter. He also invented trigonometry. His star catalogue was due to the appearance of a new star which caused him to search for possible previous similar phenomena, and also to prepare for checking future ones. No advance was made in theoretical astronomy for 260 years, the interval between Hipparchus and Ptolemy of Alexandria. Ptolemy accepted the spherical form of the earth but denied its rotation or any other movement. He made no advance on Hipparchus in regard to the sun, though the lapse of time had largely increased the errors of the elements adopted by the latter. In the case of the moon, however, Ptolemy traced the variable inequality noticed sometimes by Hipparchus at first and last quarter, which vanished when the moon was in apogee or perigee. This he called the evection, and introduced another epicycle to represent it. In his planetary theory he found that the places given by his adopted excentric did not fit, being one way at apogee and the other at perigee; so that the centre of distance must be nearer the earth. He found it best to assume the centre of distance half-way between the centre of the earth and the excentric, thus \"bisecting the excentricity\". Even this did not fit in the case of Mercury, and in general the agreement between theory and observation was spoilt by the necessity of making all the orbital planes pass through the centre of the earth, instead of the sun, thus making a good accordance practically impossible.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the significant advancements made by Hipparchus in the field of astronomy. Hipparchus made groundbreaking discoveries by observing the irregular motion of the sun and proposed that it revolved around a point called the \"excentric\" rather than directly around the earth. He also introduced the concept of the \"deferent\" and \"epicycle\" to explain the sun's motion more accurately. Hipparchus extended these ideas to the moon but faced challenges in predicting its motion accurately. He further improved determinations related to the sun and moon's movements, discovered the Precession of the Equinoxes, and developed trigonometry. Despite his contributions, Hipparchus left some aspects of planetary observations for future exploration. The paragraph contrasts Hipparchus's advancements with Ptolemy's work, where Ptolemy made some progress in understanding the moon's irregularities but faced challenges in accurately predicting planetary positions due to the limitations of the models used.","original_text":"About this time the necessity for more accurate places of the sun and moon, and the liberality of the Ptolemys who ruled Egypt, combined to provide regular observations at Alexandria, so that, when Hipparchus came upon the scene, there was a considerable amount of material for him to use. His discoveries marked a great advance in the science of astronomy. He noted the irregular motion of the sun, and, to explain it, assumed that it revolved uniformly not exactly about the earth but about a point some distance away, called the \"excentric\".[1] The line joining the centre of the earth to the excentric passes through the apses of the sun's orbit, where its distance from the earth is greatest and least. The same result he could obtain by assuming that the sun moved round a small circle, whose centre described a larger circle about the earth; this larger circle carrying the other was called the \"deferent\": so that the actual motion of the sun was in an epicycle. Of the two methods of expression Hipparchus ultimately preferred the second. He applied the same process to the moon but found that he could depend upon its being right only at new and full moon. The irregularity at first and third quarters he left to be investigated by his successors. He also considered the planetary observations at his disposal insufficient and so gave up the attempt at a complete planetary theory. He made improved determinations of some of the elements of the motions of the sun and moon, and discovered the Precession of the Equinoxes, from the Alexandrian observations which showed that each year as the sun came to cross the equator at the vernal equinox it did so at a point about fifty seconds of arc earlier on the ecliptic, thus producing in 150 years an unmistakable change of a couple of degrees, or four times the sun's diameter. He also invented trigonometry. His star catalogue was due to the appearance of a new star which caused him to search for possible previous similar phenomena, and also to prepare for checking future ones. No advance was made in theoretical astronomy for 260 years, the interval between Hipparchus and Ptolemy of Alexandria. Ptolemy accepted the spherical form of the earth but denied its rotation or any other movement. He made no advance on Hipparchus in regard to the sun, though the lapse of time had largely increased the errors of the elements adopted by the latter. In the case of the moon, however, Ptolemy traced the variable inequality noticed sometimes by Hipparchus at first and last quarter, which vanished when the moon was in apogee or perigee. This he called the evection, and introduced another epicycle to represent it. In his planetary theory he found that the places given by his adopted excentric did not fit, being one way at apogee and the other at perigee; so that the centre of distance must be nearer the earth. He found it best to assume the centre of distance half-way between the centre of the earth and the excentric, thus \"bisecting the excentricity\". Even this did not fit in the case of Mercury, and in general the agreement between theory and observation was spoilt by the necessity of making all the orbital planes pass through the centre of the earth, instead of the sun, thus making a good accordance practically impossible.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The text discusses the lack of significant advancements in planetary theories post-Ptolemy's era, with minor improvements made by Arab philosophers using better instruments. Despite occasional modifications to Ptolemy's theory, no substantial progress was achieved. The narrative highlights the contributions of Arab and Spanish scholars, such as Ulugh Begh and Alphonso of Castile, who made strides in astronomy, including the creation of star catalogues and the development of the Alphonsine tables.","original_text":"After Ptolemy's time very little was heard for many centuries of any fresh planetary theory, though advances in some points of detail were made, notably by some of the Arab philosophers, who obtained improved values for some of the elements by using better instruments. From time to time various modifications of Ptolemy's theory were suggested, but none of any real value. The Moors in Spain did their share of the work carried on by their Eastern co-religionists, and the first independent star catalogue since the time of Hipparchus was made by another Oriental, Tamerlane's grandson, Ulugh Begh, who built a fine observatory at Samarcand in the fifteenth century. In Spain the work was not monopolised by the Moors, for in the thirteenth century Alphonso of Castile, with the assistance of Jewish and Christian computers, compiled the Alphonsine tables, completed in 1252, in which year he ascended the throne as Alphonso X. They were long circulated in MS. and were first printed in 1483, not long before the end of the period of stagnation.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the main ideas presented in the paragraph, covering the lack of significant progress in planetary theories post-Ptolemy, the minor improvements by Arab philosophers, the contributions of Ulugh Begh, and the compilation of the Alphonsine tables by Alphonso of Castile.","original_text":"After Ptolemy's time very little was heard for many centuries of any fresh planetary theory, though advances in some points of detail were made, notably by some of the Arab philosophers, who obtained improved values for some of the elements by using better instruments. From time to time various modifications of Ptolemy's theory were suggested, but none of any real value. The Moors in Spain did their share of the work carried on by their Eastern co-religionists, and the first independent star catalogue since the time of Hipparchus was made by another Oriental, Tamerlane's grandson, Ulugh Begh, who built a fine observatory at Samarcand in the fifteenth century. In Spain the work was not monopolised by the Moors, for in the thirteenth century Alphonso of Castile, with the assistance of Jewish and Christian computers, compiled the Alphonsine tables, completed in 1252, in which year he ascended the throne as Alphonso X. They were long circulated in MS. and were first printed in 1483, not long before the end of the period of stagnation.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the lack of significant advancements in planetary theories after Ptolemy's time. While some improvements in details were made by Arab philosophers using better instruments, no substantial new theories emerged. The text mentions the contributions of the Moors in Spain and Ulugh Begh from Samarcand, who created an independent star catalogue in the fifteenth century. Additionally, it highlights Alphonso of Castile's work in compiling the Alphonsine tables with the help of Jewish and Christian scholars in the thirteenth century, marking a notable effort during a period of astronomical stagnation.","original_text":"After Ptolemy's time very little was heard for many centuries of any fresh planetary theory, though advances in some points of detail were made, notably by some of the Arab philosophers, who obtained improved values for some of the elements by using better instruments. From time to time various modifications of Ptolemy's theory were suggested, but none of any real value. The Moors in Spain did their share of the work carried on by their Eastern co-religionists, and the first independent star catalogue since the time of Hipparchus was made by another Oriental, Tamerlane's grandson, Ulugh Begh, who built a fine observatory at Samarcand in the fifteenth century. In Spain the work was not monopolised by the Moors, for in the thirteenth century Alphonso of Castile, with the assistance of Jewish and Christian computers, compiled the Alphonsine tables, completed in 1252, in which year he ascended the throne as Alphonso X. They were long circulated in MS. and were first printed in 1483, not long before the end of the period of stagnation.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the lack of significant advancements in planetary theory following Ptolemy's era. Despite minor improvements by Arab philosophers in refining certain elements using better instruments, there was a prolonged period of stagnation in the development of new planetary theories. While some modifications to Ptolemy's theory were proposed over the centuries, none were deemed substantial. The text highlights the contributions of Arab philosophers, particularly in obtaining more accurate astronomical values. Additionally, it mentions Ulugh Begh, Tamerlane's grandson, who constructed an observatory in Samarcand and created a notable star catalogue in the fifteenth century. The paragraph also touches on Alphonso of Castile's collaboration with Jewish and Christian scholars to compile the Alphonsine tables in the thirteenth century, marking a significant astronomical achievement before the end of the stagnant period.","original_text":"After Ptolemy's time very little was heard for many centuries of any fresh planetary theory, though advances in some points of detail were made, notably by some of the Arab philosophers, who obtained improved values for some of the elements by using better instruments. From time to time various modifications of Ptolemy's theory were suggested, but none of any real value. The Moors in Spain did their share of the work carried on by their Eastern co-religionists, and the first independent star catalogue since the time of Hipparchus was made by another Oriental, Tamerlane's grandson, Ulugh Begh, who built a fine observatory at Samarcand in the fifteenth century. In Spain the work was not monopolised by the Moors, for in the thirteenth century Alphonso of Castile, with the assistance of Jewish and Christian computers, compiled the Alphonsine tables, completed in 1252, in which year he ascended the throne as Alphonso X. They were long circulated in MS. and were first printed in 1483, not long before the end of the period of stagnation.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Copernicus, born in 1473 in Polish Prussia, sought to reform Ptolemaic astronomy after his studies in Cracow and Italian universities. By simplifying the system through attributing annual motion to Earth, he reduced the number of circles and epicycles, emphasizing a mathematical approach. Copernicus defended a moving Earth but struggled to fully depart from traditional circular motion concepts.","original_text":"Copernicus was born in 1473 at Thorn in Polish Prussia. In the course of his studies at Cracow and at several Italian universities, he learnt all that was known of the Ptolemaic astronomy and determined to reform it. His maternal uncle, the Bishop of Ermland, having provided him with a lay canonry in the Cathedral of Frauenburg, he had leisure to devote himself to Science. Reviewing the suggestions of the ancient Greeks, he was struck by the simplification that would be introduced by reviving the idea that the annual motion should be attributed to the earth itself instead of having a separate annual epicycle for each planet and for the sun. Of the seventy odd circles or epicycles required by the latest form of the Ptolemaic system, Copernicus succeeded in dispensing with rather more than half, but he still required thirty-four, which was the exact number assumed before the time of Aristotle. His considerations were almost entirely mathematical, his only invasion into physics being in defence of the \"moving earth\" against the stock objection that if the earth moved, loose objects would fly off, and towers fall. He did not break sufficiently away from the old tradition of uniform circular motion. Ptolemy's efforts at exactness were baulked, as we have seen, by the supposed necessity of all the orbit planes passing through the earth, and if Copernicus had simply transferred this responsibility to the sun he would have done better. But he would not sacrifice the old fetish, and so, the orbit of the earth being clearly not circular with respect to the sun, he made all his planetary planes pass through the centre of the earth's orbit, instead of through the sun, thus handicapping himself in the same way though not in the same degree as Ptolemy. His thirty-four circles or epicycles comprised four for the earth, three for the moon, seven for Mercury (on account of his highly eccentric orbit) and five each for the other planets.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Copernicus, born in 1473 in Thorn, Polish Prussia, aimed to reform Ptolemaic astronomy after studying in Cracow and Italian universities. Endowed with a lay canonry by his uncle, the Bishop of Ermland, he sought to simplify the complex Ptolemaic system by attributing the annual motion to Earth itself. Despite retaining some circles due to his mathematical approach, he defended the concept of a moving Earth against objections regarding objects flying off, making significant advancements in challenging prevailing astronomical beliefs.","original_text":"Copernicus was born in 1473 at Thorn in Polish Prussia. In the course of his studies at Cracow and at several Italian universities, he learnt all that was known of the Ptolemaic astronomy and determined to reform it. His maternal uncle, the Bishop of Ermland, having provided him with a lay canonry in the Cathedral of Frauenburg, he had leisure to devote himself to Science. Reviewing the suggestions of the ancient Greeks, he was struck by the simplification that would be introduced by reviving the idea that the annual motion should be attributed to the earth itself instead of having a separate annual epicycle for each planet and for the sun. Of the seventy odd circles or epicycles required by the latest form of the Ptolemaic system, Copernicus succeeded in dispensing with rather more than half, but he still required thirty-four, which was the exact number assumed before the time of Aristotle. His considerations were almost entirely mathematical, his only invasion into physics being in defence of the \"moving earth\" against the stock objection that if the earth moved, loose objects would fly off, and towers fall. He did not break sufficiently away from the old tradition of uniform circular motion. Ptolemy's efforts at exactness were baulked, as we have seen, by the supposed necessity of all the orbit planes passing through the earth, and if Copernicus had simply transferred this responsibility to the sun he would have done better. But he would not sacrifice the old fetish, and so, the orbit of the earth being clearly not circular with respect to the sun, he made all his planetary planes pass through the centre of the earth's orbit, instead of through the sun, thus handicapping himself in the same way though not in the same degree as Ptolemy. His thirty-four circles or epicycles comprised four for the earth, three for the moon, seven for Mercury (on account of his highly eccentric orbit) and five each for the other planets.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Copernicus, born in 1473, aimed to reform the Ptolemaic astronomy by attributing the annual motion to the Earth itself, reducing the number of circles and epicycles significantly but still requiring thirty-four due to adherence to circular motion traditions. He defended the moving Earth concept against objections, focusing mainly on mathematical considerations.","original_text":"Copernicus was born in 1473 at Thorn in Polish Prussia. In the course of his studies at Cracow and at several Italian universities, he learnt all that was known of the Ptolemaic astronomy and determined to reform it. His maternal uncle, the Bishop of Ermland, having provided him with a lay canonry in the Cathedral of Frauenburg, he had leisure to devote himself to Science. Reviewing the suggestions of the ancient Greeks, he was struck by the simplification that would be introduced by reviving the idea that the annual motion should be attributed to the earth itself instead of having a separate annual epicycle for each planet and for the sun. Of the seventy odd circles or epicycles required by the latest form of the Ptolemaic system, Copernicus succeeded in dispensing with rather more than half, but he still required thirty-four, which was the exact number assumed before the time of Aristotle. His considerations were almost entirely mathematical, his only invasion into physics being in defence of the \"moving earth\" against the stock objection that if the earth moved, loose objects would fly off, and towers fall. He did not break sufficiently away from the old tradition of uniform circular motion. Ptolemy's efforts at exactness were baulked, as we have seen, by the supposed necessity of all the orbit planes passing through the earth, and if Copernicus had simply transferred this responsibility to the sun he would have done better. But he would not sacrifice the old fetish, and so, the orbit of the earth being clearly not circular with respect to the sun, he made all his planetary planes pass through the centre of the earth's orbit, instead of through the sun, thus handicapping himself in the same way though not in the same degree as Ptolemy. His thirty-four circles or epicycles comprised four for the earth, three for the moon, seven for Mercury (on account of his highly eccentric orbit) and five each for the other planets.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's book \"Kepler\" discusses Copernicus' efforts to reform the Ptolemaic astronomy system. Born in 1473, Copernicus studied the existing Ptolemaic astronomy extensively during his education in Cracow and Italian universities. He aimed to simplify the complex system by attributing the annual motion to the Earth itself rather than having separate epicycles for each planet and the sun. Copernicus managed to reduce the number of required circles and epicycles significantly but still needed thirty-four, a number similar to that assumed before Aristotle's time. His approach was primarily mathematical, defending the concept of a moving Earth against objections about objects flying off due to its motion. However, he retained the tradition of uniform circular motion, hindering his progress. By not shifting the responsibility of orbit planes from the Earth to the sun, Copernicus faced challenges similar to Ptolemy. His system included circles and epicycles for Earth, the moon, Mercury, and other planets, showcasing his attempt to reform the existing astronomical model.","original_text":"Copernicus was born in 1473 at Thorn in Polish Prussia. In the course of his studies at Cracow and at several Italian universities, he learnt all that was known of the Ptolemaic astronomy and determined to reform it. His maternal uncle, the Bishop of Ermland, having provided him with a lay canonry in the Cathedral of Frauenburg, he had leisure to devote himself to Science. Reviewing the suggestions of the ancient Greeks, he was struck by the simplification that would be introduced by reviving the idea that the annual motion should be attributed to the earth itself instead of having a separate annual epicycle for each planet and for the sun. Of the seventy odd circles or epicycles required by the latest form of the Ptolemaic system, Copernicus succeeded in dispensing with rather more than half, but he still required thirty-four, which was the exact number assumed before the time of Aristotle. His considerations were almost entirely mathematical, his only invasion into physics being in defence of the \"moving earth\" against the stock objection that if the earth moved, loose objects would fly off, and towers fall. He did not break sufficiently away from the old tradition of uniform circular motion. Ptolemy's efforts at exactness were baulked, as we have seen, by the supposed necessity of all the orbit planes passing through the earth, and if Copernicus had simply transferred this responsibility to the sun he would have done better. But he would not sacrifice the old fetish, and so, the orbit of the earth being clearly not circular with respect to the sun, he made all his planetary planes pass through the centre of the earth's orbit, instead of through the sun, thus handicapping himself in the same way though not in the same degree as Ptolemy. His thirty-four circles or epicycles comprised four for the earth, three for the moon, seven for Mercury (on account of his highly eccentric orbit) and five each for the other planets.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Copernicus' contribution to the transition from the geocentric Ptolemaic system to the heliocentric model attributed to Kepler. It credits Copernicus for challenging the Ptolemaic system significantly, paving the way for the heliocentric system. Despite facing opposition, Copernicus made key astronomical observations and struggled with accuracy concerns in publishing his work.","original_text":"It is rather an exaggeration to call the present accepted system the Copernican system, as it is really due to Kepler, half a century after the death of Copernicus, but much credit is due to the latter for his successful attempt to provide a real alternative for the Ptolemaic system, instead of tinkering with it. The old geocentric system once shaken, the way was gradually smoothed for the heliocentric system, which Copernicus, still hampered by tradition, did not quite reach. He was hardly a practical astronomer in the observational sense. His first recorded observation, of an occultation of Aldebaran, was made in 1497, and he is not known to have made as many as fifty astronomical observations, while, of the few he did make and use, at least one was more than half a degree in error, which would have been intolerable to such an observer as Hipparchus. Copernicus in fact seems to have considered accurate observations unattainable with the instruments at hand. He refused to give any opinion on the projected reform of the calendar, on the ground that the motions of the sun and moon were not known with sufficient accuracy. It is possible that with better data he might have made much more progress. He was in no hurry to publish anything, perhaps on account of possible opposition. Certainly Luther, with his obstinate conviction of the verbal accuracy of the Scriptures, rejected as mere folly the idea of a moving earth, and Melanchthon thought such opinions should be prohibited, but Rheticus, a professor at the Protestant University of Wittenberg and an enthusiastic pupil of Copernicus, urged publication, and undertook to see the work through the press. This, however, he was unable to complete and another Lutheran, Osiander, to whom he entrusted it, wrote a preface, with the apparent intention of disarming opposition, in which he stated that the principles laid down were only abstract hypotheses convenient for purposes of calculation. This unauthorised interpolation may have had its share in postponing the prohibition of the book by the Church of Rome.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively covers the main points of the paragraph, including the transition from the geocentric to the heliocentric model in astronomy, Copernicus's contributions and limitations, his cautious approach to publishing, and the opposition he faced from figures like Luther.","original_text":"It is rather an exaggeration to call the present accepted system the Copernican system, as it is really due to Kepler, half a century after the death of Copernicus, but much credit is due to the latter for his successful attempt to provide a real alternative for the Ptolemaic system, instead of tinkering with it. The old geocentric system once shaken, the way was gradually smoothed for the heliocentric system, which Copernicus, still hampered by tradition, did not quite reach. He was hardly a practical astronomer in the observational sense. His first recorded observation, of an occultation of Aldebaran, was made in 1497, and he is not known to have made as many as fifty astronomical observations, while, of the few he did make and use, at least one was more than half a degree in error, which would have been intolerable to such an observer as Hipparchus. Copernicus in fact seems to have considered accurate observations unattainable with the instruments at hand. He refused to give any opinion on the projected reform of the calendar, on the ground that the motions of the sun and moon were not known with sufficient accuracy. It is possible that with better data he might have made much more progress. He was in no hurry to publish anything, perhaps on account of possible opposition. Certainly Luther, with his obstinate conviction of the verbal accuracy of the Scriptures, rejected as mere folly the idea of a moving earth, and Melanchthon thought such opinions should be prohibited, but Rheticus, a professor at the Protestant University of Wittenberg and an enthusiastic pupil of Copernicus, urged publication, and undertook to see the work through the press. This, however, he was unable to complete and another Lutheran, Osiander, to whom he entrusted it, wrote a preface, with the apparent intention of disarming opposition, in which he stated that the principles laid down were only abstract hypotheses convenient for purposes of calculation. This unauthorised interpolation may have had its share in postponing the prohibition of the book by the Church of Rome.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Copernicus and Kepler's contributions to the heliocentric system. It highlights Copernicus challenging the geocentric model, Kepler's role post-Copernicus, and the reluctance of Copernicus to publish promptly due to potential opposition, including from Luther. Rheticus and Osiander's involvement in the publication process is noted.","original_text":"It is rather an exaggeration to call the present accepted system the Copernican system, as it is really due to Kepler, half a century after the death of Copernicus, but much credit is due to the latter for his successful attempt to provide a real alternative for the Ptolemaic system, instead of tinkering with it. The old geocentric system once shaken, the way was gradually smoothed for the heliocentric system, which Copernicus, still hampered by tradition, did not quite reach. He was hardly a practical astronomer in the observational sense. His first recorded observation, of an occultation of Aldebaran, was made in 1497, and he is not known to have made as many as fifty astronomical observations, while, of the few he did make and use, at least one was more than half a degree in error, which would have been intolerable to such an observer as Hipparchus. Copernicus in fact seems to have considered accurate observations unattainable with the instruments at hand. He refused to give any opinion on the projected reform of the calendar, on the ground that the motions of the sun and moon were not known with sufficient accuracy. It is possible that with better data he might have made much more progress. He was in no hurry to publish anything, perhaps on account of possible opposition. Certainly Luther, with his obstinate conviction of the verbal accuracy of the Scriptures, rejected as mere folly the idea of a moving earth, and Melanchthon thought such opinions should be prohibited, but Rheticus, a professor at the Protestant University of Wittenberg and an enthusiastic pupil of Copernicus, urged publication, and undertook to see the work through the press. This, however, he was unable to complete and another Lutheran, Osiander, to whom he entrusted it, wrote a preface, with the apparent intention of disarming opposition, in which he stated that the principles laid down were only abstract hypotheses convenient for purposes of calculation. This unauthorised interpolation may have had its share in postponing the prohibition of the book by the Church of Rome.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the contributions of Copernicus and Kepler to the evolution of astronomy. It highlights that while the system is commonly referred to as the Copernican system, Kepler played a significant role in its development. Copernicus is credited with challenging the geocentric Ptolemaic system and proposing a heliocentric model, although he faced limitations due to traditional beliefs. Copernicus was not a prolific observer, with few recorded observations, some of which contained errors. He hesitated to publish his work, possibly due to anticipated opposition, including from figures like Luther who rejected the idea of a moving Earth. Rheticus, a supporter of Copernicus, advocated for the publication of his work, which was eventually released with a preface by Osiander that presented the heliocentric model as a mere calculation tool rather than a factual representation, potentially to mitigate backlash from the Church.","original_text":"It is rather an exaggeration to call the present accepted system the Copernican system, as it is really due to Kepler, half a century after the death of Copernicus, but much credit is due to the latter for his successful attempt to provide a real alternative for the Ptolemaic system, instead of tinkering with it. The old geocentric system once shaken, the way was gradually smoothed for the heliocentric system, which Copernicus, still hampered by tradition, did not quite reach. He was hardly a practical astronomer in the observational sense. His first recorded observation, of an occultation of Aldebaran, was made in 1497, and he is not known to have made as many as fifty astronomical observations, while, of the few he did make and use, at least one was more than half a degree in error, which would have been intolerable to such an observer as Hipparchus. Copernicus in fact seems to have considered accurate observations unattainable with the instruments at hand. He refused to give any opinion on the projected reform of the calendar, on the ground that the motions of the sun and moon were not known with sufficient accuracy. It is possible that with better data he might have made much more progress. He was in no hurry to publish anything, perhaps on account of possible opposition. Certainly Luther, with his obstinate conviction of the verbal accuracy of the Scriptures, rejected as mere folly the idea of a moving earth, and Melanchthon thought such opinions should be prohibited, but Rheticus, a professor at the Protestant University of Wittenberg and an enthusiastic pupil of Copernicus, urged publication, and undertook to see the work through the press. This, however, he was unable to complete and another Lutheran, Osiander, to whom he entrusted it, wrote a preface, with the apparent intention of disarming opposition, in which he stated that the principles laid down were only abstract hypotheses convenient for purposes of calculation. This unauthorised interpolation may have had its share in postponing the prohibition of the book by the Church of Rome.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Copernicus revolutionized astronomy by asserting Earth's status as a planet among others, explaining planetary motions, and influencing new astronomical tables through his work, despite some limitations.","original_text":"According to Copernicus the earth is only a planet like the others, and not even the biggest one, while the sun is the most important body in the system, and the stars probably too far away for any motion of the earth to affect their apparent places. The earth in fact is very small in comparison with the distance of the stars, as evidenced by the fact that an observer anywhere on the earth appears to be in the middle of the universe. He shows that the revolution of the earth will account for the seasons, and for the stationary points and retrograde motions of the planets. He corrects definitely the order of the planets outwards from the sun, a matter which had been in dispute. A notable defect is due to the idea that a body can only revolve about another body or a point, as if rigidly connected with it, so that, in order to keep the earth's axis in a constant direction in space, he has to invent a third motion. His discussion of precession, which he rightly attributes to a slow motion of the earth's axis, is marred by the idea that the precession is variable. With all its defects, partly due to reliance on bad observations, the work showed a great advance in the interpretation of the motions of the planets; and his determinations of the periods both in relation to the earth and to the stars were adopted by Reinhold, Professor of Astronomy at Wittenberg, for the new Prutenic or Prussian Tables, which were to supersede the obsolete Alphonsine Tables of the thirteenth century.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Copernicus redefined Earth as a planet among others, emphasizing the Sun's centrality. He explained Earth's revolution, corrected planetary order, and introduced a third motion to maintain Earth's axis direction. Despite inaccuracies, his work significantly advanced planetary motion interpretations, leading to the development of the Prutenic Tables.","original_text":"According to Copernicus the earth is only a planet like the others, and not even the biggest one, while the sun is the most important body in the system, and the stars probably too far away for any motion of the earth to affect their apparent places. The earth in fact is very small in comparison with the distance of the stars, as evidenced by the fact that an observer anywhere on the earth appears to be in the middle of the universe. He shows that the revolution of the earth will account for the seasons, and for the stationary points and retrograde motions of the planets. He corrects definitely the order of the planets outwards from the sun, a matter which had been in dispute. A notable defect is due to the idea that a body can only revolve about another body or a point, as if rigidly connected with it, so that, in order to keep the earth's axis in a constant direction in space, he has to invent a third motion. His discussion of precession, which he rightly attributes to a slow motion of the earth's axis, is marred by the idea that the precession is variable. With all its defects, partly due to reliance on bad observations, the work showed a great advance in the interpretation of the motions of the planets; and his determinations of the periods both in relation to the earth and to the stars were adopted by Reinhold, Professor of Astronomy at Wittenberg, for the new Prutenic or Prussian Tables, which were to supersede the obsolete Alphonsine Tables of the thirteenth century.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Copernicus revolutionized astronomy by proposing that the Earth is merely a planet among others, with the Sun being the central body in the system. He highlighted the insignificance of Earth compared to the vast distances of stars, positioning observers on Earth at the apparent center of the universe. Copernicus explained how Earth's revolution explains seasons, planetary retrograde motions, and stationary points. He clarified the planetary order from the Sun outward and introduced a third motion to maintain Earth's axis direction in space. Despite some shortcomings, like variable precession, his work significantly advanced the understanding of planetary motions, leading to the development of new astronomical tables.","original_text":"According to Copernicus the earth is only a planet like the others, and not even the biggest one, while the sun is the most important body in the system, and the stars probably too far away for any motion of the earth to affect their apparent places. The earth in fact is very small in comparison with the distance of the stars, as evidenced by the fact that an observer anywhere on the earth appears to be in the middle of the universe. He shows that the revolution of the earth will account for the seasons, and for the stationary points and retrograde motions of the planets. He corrects definitely the order of the planets outwards from the sun, a matter which had been in dispute. A notable defect is due to the idea that a body can only revolve about another body or a point, as if rigidly connected with it, so that, in order to keep the earth's axis in a constant direction in space, he has to invent a third motion. His discussion of precession, which he rightly attributes to a slow motion of the earth's axis, is marred by the idea that the precession is variable. With all its defects, partly due to reliance on bad observations, the work showed a great advance in the interpretation of the motions of the planets; and his determinations of the periods both in relation to the earth and to the stars were adopted by Reinhold, Professor of Astronomy at Wittenberg, for the new Prutenic or Prussian Tables, which were to supersede the obsolete Alphonsine Tables of the thirteenth century.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Copernicus's revolutionary ideas about the Earth's position in the solar system. Copernicus asserts that the Earth is just a planet among others, not the largest, with the sun being the central and most significant body. He emphasizes the vast distances of the stars, indicating that Earth's motion has negligible effects on their positions. Copernicus explains how Earth's revolution explains phenomena like seasons, planetary retrograde motions, and stationary points. He clarifies the correct order of planets from the sun, resolving previous disputes. Despite some shortcomings, such as the need for an additional motion to maintain Earth's axis direction, Copernicus's work represents a significant advancement in understanding planetary motions. Reinhold, a professor at Wittenberg, adopted Copernicus's determinations for new astronomical tables, replacing outdated ones from the thirteenth century.","original_text":"According to Copernicus the earth is only a planet like the others, and not even the biggest one, while the sun is the most important body in the system, and the stars probably too far away for any motion of the earth to affect their apparent places. The earth in fact is very small in comparison with the distance of the stars, as evidenced by the fact that an observer anywhere on the earth appears to be in the middle of the universe. He shows that the revolution of the earth will account for the seasons, and for the stationary points and retrograde motions of the planets. He corrects definitely the order of the planets outwards from the sun, a matter which had been in dispute. A notable defect is due to the idea that a body can only revolve about another body or a point, as if rigidly connected with it, so that, in order to keep the earth's axis in a constant direction in space, he has to invent a third motion. His discussion of precession, which he rightly attributes to a slow motion of the earth's axis, is marred by the idea that the precession is variable. With all its defects, partly due to reliance on bad observations, the work showed a great advance in the interpretation of the motions of the planets; and his determinations of the periods both in relation to the earth and to the stars were adopted by Reinhold, Professor of Astronomy at Wittenberg, for the new Prutenic or Prussian Tables, which were to supersede the obsolete Alphonsine Tables of the thirteenth century.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the paragraph's discussion on the Earth's motion in contrast to other astronomical details of the time, the influence of Copernicus' doctrine, and the anticipated advancements in observational accuracy and planetary theory post-Copernicus.","original_text":"In comparison with the question of the motion of the earth, no other astronomical detail of the time seems to be of much consequence. Comets, such as from time to time appeared, bright enough for naked eye observation, were still regarded as atmospheric phenomena, and their principal interest, as well as that of eclipses and planetary conjunctions, was in relation to astrology. Reform, however, was obviously in the air. The doctrine of Copernicus was destined very soon to divide others besides the Lutheran leaders. The leaven of inquiry was working, and not long after the death of Copernicus real advances were to come, first in the accuracy of observations, and, as a necessary result of these, in the planetary theory itself.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a comprehensive overview of the paragraph, capturing the significance of the earth's motion question, the role of comets, eclipses, and planetary conjunctions in astrology, and the impending impact of Copernicus' doctrine on the field of astronomy. It effectively conveys the essence of the text.","original_text":"In comparison with the question of the motion of the earth, no other astronomical detail of the time seems to be of much consequence. Comets, such as from time to time appeared, bright enough for naked eye observation, were still regarded as atmospheric phenomena, and their principal interest, as well as that of eclipses and planetary conjunctions, was in relation to astrology. Reform, however, was obviously in the air. The doctrine of Copernicus was destined very soon to divide others besides the Lutheran leaders. The leaven of inquiry was working, and not long after the death of Copernicus real advances were to come, first in the accuracy of observations, and, as a necessary result of these, in the planetary theory itself.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary succinctly captures the essence of the paragraph, focusing on the significance of the earth's motion in historical astronomy, the astrological context of astronomical events, the impact of Copernicus' doctrine, and the anticipated advancements in observational accuracy and planetary theory.","original_text":"In comparison with the question of the motion of the earth, no other astronomical detail of the time seems to be of much consequence. Comets, such as from time to time appeared, bright enough for naked eye observation, were still regarded as atmospheric phenomena, and their principal interest, as well as that of eclipses and planetary conjunctions, was in relation to astrology. Reform, however, was obviously in the air. The doctrine of Copernicus was destined very soon to divide others besides the Lutheran leaders. The leaven of inquiry was working, and not long after the death of Copernicus real advances were to come, first in the accuracy of observations, and, as a necessary result of these, in the planetary theory itself.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the significance of the question regarding the motion of the earth in the context of astronomy during that time period. It highlights that while other astronomical phenomena like comets, eclipses, and planetary conjunctions were observed, they were mainly viewed through the lens of astrology. The text mentions that reform was imminent, with Copernicus's doctrine poised to create a division among scholars beyond just the Lutheran leaders. It emphasizes the growing spirit of inquiry and hints at forthcoming advancements in both observational accuracy and the planetary theory following Copernicus's era.","original_text":"In comparison with the question of the motion of the earth, no other astronomical detail of the time seems to be of much consequence. Comets, such as from time to time appeared, bright enough for naked eye observation, were still regarded as atmospheric phenomena, and their principal interest, as well as that of eclipses and planetary conjunctions, was in relation to astrology. Reform, however, was obviously in the air. The doctrine of Copernicus was destined very soon to divide others besides the Lutheran leaders. The leaven of inquiry was working, and not long after the death of Copernicus real advances were to come, first in the accuracy of observations, and, as a necessary result of these, in the planetary theory itself.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The first chapter of Walter W. Bryant's book \"Kepler\" sets the stage for the astronomical reforms introduced by Johannes Kepler by providing a comprehensive historical overview of the astronomical theories and practices that preceded him. The narrative begins in ancient times, highlighting humanity's early recognition of the celestial bodies' movements, such as the sun and moon, among the stars. It notes the significance of time divisions like days, months, and years, and the early ability to predict eclipses, especially among the Chaldaeans, who were highly respected for this knowledge.\n\nThe text then transitions to the contributions of various civilizations and individuals to the field of astronomy. The Babylonians and Egyptians, for instance, are mentioned for their astrological and mythological interpretations of celestial phenomena. The Greeks, however, are credited with attempting to understand these phenomena through geometrical laws. Notably, some Pythagoreans believed in a spherical Earth and its motion, a concept later expanded by Plato, who challenged astronomers to represent celestial motions using uniformly described circlesa challenge that significantly delayed progress in astronomy.\n\nEudoxus of Cnidus's theory of concentric spheres and Aristotle's adoption and expansion of this model are discussed next. Aristotle's belief in the solid reality of these spheres and his contributions to natural science, despite some limitations, are acknowledged. Aristarchus of Samos's heliocentric theory is briefly mentioned as a significant but largely ignored advancement.\n\nThe narrative then shifts to the Hellenistic period, focusing on Hipparchus's contributions, including his discovery of the precession of the equinoxes and the development of trigonometry. Ptolemy's work, particularly his advancements and limitations in understanding the moon's motion and planetary theory, is also detailed. The stagnation in astronomical theory following Ptolemy is noted, with brief mentions of contributions by Arab philosophers and the creation of the Alphonsine tables.\n\nThe chapter culminates with the revolutionary work of Copernicus, who challenged the geocentric model and proposed a heliocentric system. Despite not fully breaking away from the concept of uniform circular motion and retaining many epicycles, Copernicus's work is recognized for its significant step towards modern astronomy. The chapter notes the cautious reception of Copernicus's ideas, influenced by religious opposition, and the eventual publication of his work, which laid the groundwork for future advancements in astronomy.\n\nIn summary, this chapter provides a thorough historical background of astronomical theories leading up to Kepler's time, highlighting the gradual shift from mythological and geocentric models to a more scientific and heliocentric understanding of the cosmos. It sets the stage for Kepler's contributions by detailing the scientific context and challenges he inherited.","original_text":"In order to emphasise the importance of the reforms introduced into astronomy by Kepler, it will be well to sketch briefly the history of the theories which he had to overthrow. In very early times it must have been realised that the sun and moon were continually changing their places among the stars. The day, the month, and the year were obvious divisions of time, and longer periods were suggested by the tabulation of eclipses. We can imagine the respect accorded to the Chaldaean sages who first discovered that eclipses could be predicted, and how the philosophers of Mesopotamia must have sought eagerly for evidence of fresh periodic laws. Certain of the stars, which appeared to wander, and were hence called planets, provided an extended field for these speculations. Among the Chaldaeans and Babylonians the knowledge gradually acquired was probably confined to the priests and utilised mainly for astrological prediction or the fixing of religious observances. Such speculations as were current among them, and also among the Egyptians and others who came to share their knowledge, were almost entirely devoted to mythology, assigning fanciful terrestrial origins to constellations, with occasional controversies as to how the earth is supported in space. The Greeks, too, had an elaborate mythology largely adapted from their neighbours, but they were not satisfied with this, and made persistent attempts to reduce the apparent motions of celestial objects to geometrical laws. Some of the Pythagoreans, if not Pythagoras himself, held that the earth is a sphere, and that the apparent daily revolution of the sun and stars is really due to a motion of the earth, though at first this motion of the earth was not supposed to be one of rotation about an axis. These notions, and also that the planets on the whole move round from west to east with reference to the stars, were made known to a larger circle through the writings of Plato. To Plato moreover is attributed the challenge to astronomers to represent all the motions of the heavenly bodies by uniformly described circles, a challenge generally held responsible for a vast amount of wasted effort, and the postponement, for many centuries, of real progress. Eudoxus of Cnidus, endeavouring to account for the fact that the planets, during every apparent revolution round the earth, come to rest twice, and in the shorter interval between these \"stationary points,\" move in the opposite direction, found that he could represent the phenomena fairly well by a system of concentric spheres, each rotating with its own velocity, and carrying its own particular planet round its own equator, the outermost sphere carrying the fixed stars. It was necessary to assume that the axes about which the various spheres revolved should have circular motions also, and gradually an increased number of spheres was evolved, the total number required by Aristotle reaching fifty-five. It may be regarded as counting in Aristotle's favour that he did consider the earth to be a sphere and not a flat disc, but he seems to have thought that the mathematical spheres of Eudoxus had a real solid existence, and that not only meteors, shooting stars and aurora, but also comets and the milky way belong to the atmosphere. His really great service to science in collating and criticising all that was known of natural science would have been greater if so much of the discussion had not been on the exact meaning of words used to describe phenomena, instead of on the facts and causes of the phenomena themselves.\nAristarchus of Samos seems to have been the first to suggest that the planets revolved not about the earth but about the sun, but the idea seemed so improbable that it was hardly noticed, especially as Aristarchus himself did not expand it into a treatise.\n\nAbout this time the necessity for more accurate places of the sun and moon, and the liberality of the Ptolemys who ruled Egypt, combined to provide regular observations at Alexandria, so that, when Hipparchus came upon the scene, there was a considerable amount of material for him to use. His discoveries marked a great advance in the science of astronomy. He noted the irregular motion of the sun, and, to explain it, assumed that it revolved uniformly not exactly about the earth but about a point some distance away, called the \"excentric\".[1] The line joining the centre of the earth to the excentric passes through the apses of the sun's orbit, where its distance from the earth is greatest and least. The same result he could obtain by assuming that the sun moved round a small circle, whose centre described a larger circle about the earth; this larger circle carrying the other was called the \"deferent\": so that the actual motion of the sun was in an epicycle. Of the two methods of expression Hipparchus ultimately preferred the second. He applied the same process to the moon but found that he could depend upon its being right only at new and full moon. The irregularity at first and third quarters he left to be investigated by his successors. He also considered the planetary observations at his disposal insufficient and so gave up the attempt at a complete planetary theory. He made improved determinations of some of the elements of the motions of the sun and moon, and discovered the Precession of the Equinoxes, from the Alexandrian observations which showed that each year as the sun came to cross the equator at the vernal equinox it did so at a point about fifty seconds of arc earlier on the ecliptic, thus producing in 150 years an unmistakable change of a couple of degrees, or four times the sun's diameter. He also invented trigonometry. His star catalogue was due to the appearance of a new star which caused him to search for possible previous similar phenomena, and also to prepare for checking future ones. No advance was made in theoretical astronomy for 260 years, the interval between Hipparchus and Ptolemy of Alexandria. Ptolemy accepted the spherical form of the earth but denied its rotation or any other movement. He made no advance on Hipparchus in regard to the sun, though the lapse of time had largely increased the errors of the elements adopted by the latter. In the case of the moon, however, Ptolemy traced the variable inequality noticed sometimes by Hipparchus at first and last quarter, which vanished when the moon was in apogee or perigee. This he called the evection, and introduced another epicycle to represent it. In his planetary theory he found that the places given by his adopted excentric did not fit, being one way at apogee and the other at perigee; so that the centre of distance must be nearer the earth. He found it best to assume the centre of distance half-way between the centre of the earth and the excentric, thus \"bisecting the excentricity\". Even this did not fit in the case of Mercury, and in general the agreement between theory and observation was spoilt by the necessity of making all the orbital planes pass through the centre of the earth, instead of the sun, thus making a good accordance practically impossible.\n\nAfter Ptolemy's time very little was heard for many centuries of any fresh planetary theory, though advances in some points of detail were made, notably by some of the Arab philosophers, who obtained improved values for some of the elements by using better instruments. From time to time various modifications of Ptolemy's theory were suggested, but none of any real value. The Moors in Spain did their share of the work carried on by their Eastern co-religionists, and the first independent star catalogue since the time of Hipparchus was made by another Oriental, Tamerlane's grandson, Ulugh Begh, who built a fine observatory at Samarcand in the fifteenth century. In Spain the work was not monopolised by the Moors, for in the thirteenth century Alphonso of Castile, with the assistance of Jewish and Christian computers, compiled the Alphonsine tables, completed in 1252, in which year he ascended the throne as Alphonso X. They were long circulated in MS. and were first printed in 1483, not long before the end of the period of stagnation.\n\nCopernicus was born in 1473 at Thorn in Polish Prussia. In the course of his studies at Cracow and at several Italian universities, he learnt all that was known of the Ptolemaic astronomy and determined to reform it. His maternal uncle, the Bishop of Ermland, having provided him with a lay canonry in the Cathedral of Frauenburg, he had leisure to devote himself to Science. Reviewing the suggestions of the ancient Greeks, he was struck by the simplification that would be introduced by reviving the idea that the annual motion should be attributed to the earth itself instead of having a separate annual epicycle for each planet and for the sun. Of the seventy odd circles or epicycles required by the latest form of the Ptolemaic system, Copernicus succeeded in dispensing with rather more than half, but he still required thirty-four, which was the exact number assumed before the time of Aristotle. His considerations were almost entirely mathematical, his only invasion into physics being in defence of the \"moving earth\" against the stock objection that if the earth moved, loose objects would fly off, and towers fall. He did not break sufficiently away from the old tradition of uniform circular motion. Ptolemy's efforts at exactness were baulked, as we have seen, by the supposed necessity of all the orbit planes passing through the earth, and if Copernicus had simply transferred this responsibility to the sun he would have done better. But he would not sacrifice the old fetish, and so, the orbit of the earth being clearly not circular with respect to the sun, he made all his planetary planes pass through the centre of the earth's orbit, instead of through the sun, thus handicapping himself in the same way though not in the same degree as Ptolemy. His thirty-four circles or epicycles comprised four for the earth, three for the moon, seven for Mercury (on account of his highly eccentric orbit) and five each for the other planets.\n\nIt is rather an exaggeration to call the present accepted system the Copernican system, as it is really due to Kepler, half a century after the death of Copernicus, but much credit is due to the latter for his successful attempt to provide a real alternative for the Ptolemaic system, instead of tinkering with it. The old geocentric system once shaken, the way was gradually smoothed for the heliocentric system, which Copernicus, still hampered by tradition, did not quite reach. He was hardly a practical astronomer in the observational sense. His first recorded observation, of an occultation of Aldebaran, was made in 1497, and he is not known to have made as many as fifty astronomical observations, while, of the few he did make and use, at least one was more than half a degree in error, which would have been intolerable to such an observer as Hipparchus. Copernicus in fact seems to have considered accurate observations unattainable with the instruments at hand. He refused to give any opinion on the projected reform of the calendar, on the ground that the motions of the sun and moon were not known with sufficient accuracy. It is possible that with better data he might have made much more progress. He was in no hurry to publish anything, perhaps on account of possible opposition. Certainly Luther, with his obstinate conviction of the verbal accuracy of the Scriptures, rejected as mere folly the idea of a moving earth, and Melanchthon thought such opinions should be prohibited, but Rheticus, a professor at the Protestant University of Wittenberg and an enthusiastic pupil of Copernicus, urged publication, and undertook to see the work through the press. This, however, he was unable to complete and another Lutheran, Osiander, to whom he entrusted it, wrote a preface, with the apparent intention of disarming opposition, in which he stated that the principles laid down were only abstract hypotheses convenient for purposes of calculation. This unauthorised interpolation may have had its share in postponing the prohibition of the book by the Church of Rome.\n\nAccording to Copernicus the earth is only a planet like the others, and not even the biggest one, while the sun is the most important body in the system, and the stars probably too far away for any motion of the earth to affect their apparent places. The earth in fact is very small in comparison with the distance of the stars, as evidenced by the fact that an observer anywhere on the earth appears to be in the middle of the universe. He shows that the revolution of the earth will account for the seasons, and for the stationary points and retrograde motions of the planets. He corrects definitely the order of the planets outwards from the sun, a matter which had been in dispute. A notable defect is due to the idea that a body can only revolve about another body or a point, as if rigidly connected with it, so that, in order to keep the earth's axis in a constant direction in space, he has to invent a third motion. His discussion of precession, which he rightly attributes to a slow motion of the earth's axis, is marred by the idea that the precession is variable. With all its defects, partly due to reliance on bad observations, the work showed a great advance in the interpretation of the motions of the planets; and his determinations of the periods both in relation to the earth and to the stars were adopted by Reinhold, Professor of Astronomy at Wittenberg, for the new Prutenic or Prussian Tables, which were to supersede the obsolete Alphonsine Tables of the thirteenth century.\n\nIn comparison with the question of the motion of the earth, no other astronomical detail of the time seems to be of much consequence. Comets, such as from time to time appeared, bright enough for naked eye observation, were still regarded as atmospheric phenomena, and their principal interest, as well as that of eclipses and planetary conjunctions, was in relation to astrology. Reform, however, was obviously in the air. The doctrine of Copernicus was destined very soon to divide others besides the Lutheran leaders. The leaven of inquiry was working, and not long after the death of Copernicus real advances were to come, first in the accuracy of observations, and, as a necessary result of these, in the planetary theory itself.","categories":["Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","Astronomy History :: The history of astronomy and astronomical discoveries","Astronomy History :: Overview of historical astronomy theories and reforms","Astronomy and Science :: Description of astronomical discoveries and scientific advancements","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies interpreted as having an influence on human affairs and the natural world","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy and Astronomers :: Information about astronomers and their contributions","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Ancient Civilizations :: Contributions of Chaldaeans, Babylonians, and Greeks to astronomy"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER I.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chapter"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures John Kepler's challenging early life, academic journey, and innovative astronomical theories, providing a comprehensive overview of his formative years and early contributions to astronomy.","original_text":"On 21st December, 1571, at Weil in the Duchy of Wurtemberg, was born a weak and sickly seven-months' child, to whom his parents Henry and Catherine Kepler gave the name of John. Henry Kepler was a petty officer in the service of the reigning Duke, and in 1576 joined the army serving in the Netherlands. His wife followed him, leaving her young son in his grandfather's care at Leonberg, where he barely recovered from a severe attack of smallpox. It was from this place that John derived the Latinised name of Leonmontanus, in accordance with the common practice of the time, but he was not known by it to any great extent. He was sent to school in 1577, but in the following year his father returned to Germany, almost ruined by the absconding of an acquaintance for whom he had become surety. Henry Kepler was obliged to sell his house and most of his belongings, and to keep a tavern at Elmendingen, withdrawing his son from school to help him with the rough work. In 1583 young Kepler was sent to the school at Elmendingen, and in 1584 had another narrow escape from death by a violent illness. In 1586 he was sent, at the charges of the Duke, to the monastic school of Maulbronn; from whence, in accordance with the school regulations, he passed at the end of his first year the examination for the bachelor's degree at Tbingen, returning for two more years as a \"veteran\" to Maulbronn before being admitted as a resident student at Tbingen. The three years thus spent at Maulbronn were marked by recurrences of several of the diseases from which he had suffered in childhood, and also by family troubles at his home. His father went away after a quarrel with his wife Catherine, and died abroad. Catherine herself, who seems to have been of a very unamiable disposition, next quarrelled with her own relatives. It is not surprising therefore that Kepler after taking his M.A. degree in August, 1591, coming out second in the examination lists, was ready to accept the first appointment offered him, even if it should involve leaving home. This happened to be the lectureship in astronomy at Gratz, the chief town in Styria. Kepler's knowledge of astronomy was limited to the compulsory school course, nor had he as yet any particular leaning towards the science; the post, moreover, was a meagre and unimportant one. On the other hand he had frequently expressed disgust at the way in which one after another of his companions had refused \"foreign\" appointments which had been arranged for them under the Duke's scheme of education. His tutors also strongly urged him to accept the lectureship, and he had not the usual reluctance to leave home. He therefore proceeded to Gratz, protesting that he did not thereby forfeit his claim to a more promising opening, when such should appear. His astronomical tutor, Maestlin, encouraged him to devote himself to his newly adopted science, and the first result of this advice appeared before very long in Kepler's \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". The bent of his mind was towards philosophical speculation, to which he had been attracted in his youthful studies of Scaliger's \"Exoteric Exercises\". He says he devoted much time \"to the examination of the nature of heaven, of souls, of genii, of the elements, of the essence of fire, of the cause of fountains, the ebb and flow of the tides, the shape of the continents and inland seas, and things of this sort\". Following his tutor in his admiration for the Copernican theory, he wrote an essay on the primary motion, attributing it to the rotation of the earth, and this not for the mathematical reasons brought forward by Copernicus, but, as he himself says, on physical or metaphysical grounds. In 1595, having more leisure from lectures, he turned his speculative mind to the number, size, and motion of the planetary orbits. He first tried simple numerical relations, but none of them appeared to be twice, thrice, or four times as great as another, although he felt convinced that there was some relation between the motions and the distances, seeing that when a gap appeared in one series, there was a corresponding gap in the other. These gaps he attempted to fill by hypothetical planets between Mars and Jupiter, and between Mercury and Venus, but this method also failed to provide the regular proportion which he sought, besides being open to the objection that on the same principle there might be many more equally invisible planets at either end of the series. He was nevertheless unwilling to adopt the opinion of Rheticus that the number six was sacred, maintaining that the \"sacredness\" of the number was of much more recent date than the creation of the worlds, and could not therefore account for it. He next tried an ingenious idea, comparing the perpendiculars from different points of a quadrant of a circle on a tangent at its extremity. The greatest of these, the tangent, not being cut by the quadrant, he called the line of the sun, and associated with infinite force. The shortest, being the point at the other end of the quadrant, thus corresponded to the fixed stars or zero force; intermediate ones were to be found proportional to the \"forces\" of the six planets. After a great amount of unfinished trial calculations, which took nearly a whole summer, he convinced himself that success did not lie that way. In July, 1595, while lecturing on the great planetary conjunctions, he drew quasi-triangles in a circular zodiac showing the slow progression of these points of conjunction at intervals of just over 240 or eight signs. The successive chords marked out a smaller circle to which they were tangents, about half the diameter of the zodiacal circle as drawn, and Kepler at once saw a similarity to the orbits of Saturn and Jupiter, the radius of the inscribed circle of an equilateral triangle being half that of the circumscribed circle. His natural sequence of ideas impelled him to try a square, in the hope that the circumscribed and inscribed circles might give him a similar \"analogy\" for the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. He next tried a pentagon and so on, but he soon noted that he would never reach the sun that way, nor would he find any such limitation as six, the number of \"possibles\" being obviously infinite. The actual planets moreover were not even six but only five, so far as he knew, so he next pondered the question of what sort of things these could be of which only five different figures were possible and suddenly thought of the five regular solids.[2] He immediately pounced upon this idea and ultimately evolved the following scheme. \"The earth is the sphere, the measure of all; round it describe a dodecahedron; the sphere including this will be Mars. Round Mars describe a tetrahedron; the sphere including this will be Jupiter. Describe a cube round Jupiter; the sphere including this will be Saturn. Now, inscribe in the earth an icosahedron, the sphere inscribed in it will be Venus: inscribe an octahedron in Venus: the circle inscribed in it will be Mercury.\" With this result Kepler was inordinately pleased, and regretted not a moment of the time spent in obtaining it, though to us this \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" can only appear useless, even without the more recent additions to the known planets. He admitted that a certain thickness must be assigned to the intervening spheres to cover the greatest and least distances of the several planets from the sun, but even then some of the numbers obtained are not a very close fit for the corresponding planetary orbits. Kepler's own suggested explanation of the discordances was that they must be due to erroneous measures of the planetary distances, and this, in those days of crude and infrequent observations, could not easily be disproved. He next thought of a variety of reasons why the five regular solids should occur in precisely the order given and in no other, diverging from this into a subtle and not very intelligible process of reasoning to account for the division of the zodiac into 360. The next subject was more important, and dealt with the relation between the distances of the planets and their times of revolution round the sun. It was obvious that the period was not simply proportional to the distance, as the outer planets were all too slow for this, and he concluded \"either that the moving intelligences of the planets are weakest in those that are farthest from the sun, or that there is one moving intelligence in the sun, the common centre, forcing them all round, but those most violently which are nearest, and that it languishes in some sort and grows weaker at the most distant, because of the remoteness and the attenuation of the virtue\". This is not so near a guess at the theory of gravitation as might be supposed, for Kepler imagined that a repulsive force was necessary to account for the planets being sometimes further from the sun, and so laid aside the idea of a constant attractive force. He made several other attempts to find a law connecting the distances and periods of the planets, but without success at that time, and only desisted when by unconsciously arguing in a circle he appeared to get the same result from two totally different hypotheses. He sent copies of his book to several leading astronomers, of whom Galileo praised his ingenuity and good faith, while Tycho Brahe was evidently much struck with the work and advised him to adapt something similar to the Tychonic system instead of the Copernican. He also intimated that his Uraniborg observations would provide more accurate determinations of the planetary orbits, and thus made Kepler eager to visit him, a project which as we shall see was more than fulfilled. Another copy of the book Kepler sent to Reymers the Imperial astronomer with a most fulsome letter, which Tycho, who asserted that Reymers had simply plagiarised his work, very strongly resented, thus drawing from Kepler a long letter of apology. About the same time Kepler had married a lady already twice widowed, and become involved in difficulties with her relatives on financial grounds, and with the Styrian authorities in connection with the religious disputes then coming to a head. On account of these latter he thought it expedient, the year after his marriage, to withdraw to Hungary, from whence he sent short treatises to Tbingen, \"On the magnet\" (following the ideas of Gilbert of Colchester), \"On the cause of the obliquity of the ecliptic\" and \"On the Divine wisdom as shown in the Creation\". His next important step makes it desirable to devote a chapter to a short notice of Tycho Brahe.","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed account of John Kepler's early life, struggles, educational path, and his initial contributions to astronomy, particularly his work on the planetary orbits. It effectively captures the essence of the paragraph, highlighting Kepler's challenges, developments in his astronomical thinking, and the significance of his work.","original_text":"On 21st December, 1571, at Weil in the Duchy of Wurtemberg, was born a weak and sickly seven-months' child, to whom his parents Henry and Catherine Kepler gave the name of John. Henry Kepler was a petty officer in the service of the reigning Duke, and in 1576 joined the army serving in the Netherlands. His wife followed him, leaving her young son in his grandfather's care at Leonberg, where he barely recovered from a severe attack of smallpox. It was from this place that John derived the Latinised name of Leonmontanus, in accordance with the common practice of the time, but he was not known by it to any great extent. He was sent to school in 1577, but in the following year his father returned to Germany, almost ruined by the absconding of an acquaintance for whom he had become surety. Henry Kepler was obliged to sell his house and most of his belongings, and to keep a tavern at Elmendingen, withdrawing his son from school to help him with the rough work. In 1583 young Kepler was sent to the school at Elmendingen, and in 1584 had another narrow escape from death by a violent illness. In 1586 he was sent, at the charges of the Duke, to the monastic school of Maulbronn; from whence, in accordance with the school regulations, he passed at the end of his first year the examination for the bachelor's degree at Tbingen, returning for two more years as a \"veteran\" to Maulbronn before being admitted as a resident student at Tbingen. The three years thus spent at Maulbronn were marked by recurrences of several of the diseases from which he had suffered in childhood, and also by family troubles at his home. His father went away after a quarrel with his wife Catherine, and died abroad. Catherine herself, who seems to have been of a very unamiable disposition, next quarrelled with her own relatives. It is not surprising therefore that Kepler after taking his M.A. degree in August, 1591, coming out second in the examination lists, was ready to accept the first appointment offered him, even if it should involve leaving home. This happened to be the lectureship in astronomy at Gratz, the chief town in Styria. Kepler's knowledge of astronomy was limited to the compulsory school course, nor had he as yet any particular leaning towards the science; the post, moreover, was a meagre and unimportant one. On the other hand he had frequently expressed disgust at the way in which one after another of his companions had refused \"foreign\" appointments which had been arranged for them under the Duke's scheme of education. His tutors also strongly urged him to accept the lectureship, and he had not the usual reluctance to leave home. He therefore proceeded to Gratz, protesting that he did not thereby forfeit his claim to a more promising opening, when such should appear. His astronomical tutor, Maestlin, encouraged him to devote himself to his newly adopted science, and the first result of this advice appeared before very long in Kepler's \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". The bent of his mind was towards philosophical speculation, to which he had been attracted in his youthful studies of Scaliger's \"Exoteric Exercises\". He says he devoted much time \"to the examination of the nature of heaven, of souls, of genii, of the elements, of the essence of fire, of the cause of fountains, the ebb and flow of the tides, the shape of the continents and inland seas, and things of this sort\". Following his tutor in his admiration for the Copernican theory, he wrote an essay on the primary motion, attributing it to the rotation of the earth, and this not for the mathematical reasons brought forward by Copernicus, but, as he himself says, on physical or metaphysical grounds. In 1595, having more leisure from lectures, he turned his speculative mind to the number, size, and motion of the planetary orbits. He first tried simple numerical relations, but none of them appeared to be twice, thrice, or four times as great as another, although he felt convinced that there was some relation between the motions and the distances, seeing that when a gap appeared in one series, there was a corresponding gap in the other. These gaps he attempted to fill by hypothetical planets between Mars and Jupiter, and between Mercury and Venus, but this method also failed to provide the regular proportion which he sought, besides being open to the objection that on the same principle there might be many more equally invisible planets at either end of the series. He was nevertheless unwilling to adopt the opinion of Rheticus that the number six was sacred, maintaining that the \"sacredness\" of the number was of much more recent date than the creation of the worlds, and could not therefore account for it. He next tried an ingenious idea, comparing the perpendiculars from different points of a quadrant of a circle on a tangent at its extremity. The greatest of these, the tangent, not being cut by the quadrant, he called the line of the sun, and associated with infinite force. The shortest, being the point at the other end of the quadrant, thus corresponded to the fixed stars or zero force; intermediate ones were to be found proportional to the \"forces\" of the six planets. After a great amount of unfinished trial calculations, which took nearly a whole summer, he convinced himself that success did not lie that way. In July, 1595, while lecturing on the great planetary conjunctions, he drew quasi-triangles in a circular zodiac showing the slow progression of these points of conjunction at intervals of just over 240 or eight signs. The successive chords marked out a smaller circle to which they were tangents, about half the diameter of the zodiacal circle as drawn, and Kepler at once saw a similarity to the orbits of Saturn and Jupiter, the radius of the inscribed circle of an equilateral triangle being half that of the circumscribed circle. His natural sequence of ideas impelled him to try a square, in the hope that the circumscribed and inscribed circles might give him a similar \"analogy\" for the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. He next tried a pentagon and so on, but he soon noted that he would never reach the sun that way, nor would he find any such limitation as six, the number of \"possibles\" being obviously infinite. The actual planets moreover were not even six but only five, so far as he knew, so he next pondered the question of what sort of things these could be of which only five different figures were possible and suddenly thought of the five regular solids.[2] He immediately pounced upon this idea and ultimately evolved the following scheme. \"The earth is the sphere, the measure of all; round it describe a dodecahedron; the sphere including this will be Mars. Round Mars describe a tetrahedron; the sphere including this will be Jupiter. Describe a cube round Jupiter; the sphere including this will be Saturn. Now, inscribe in the earth an icosahedron, the sphere inscribed in it will be Venus: inscribe an octahedron in Venus: the circle inscribed in it will be Mercury.\" With this result Kepler was inordinately pleased, and regretted not a moment of the time spent in obtaining it, though to us this \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" can only appear useless, even without the more recent additions to the known planets. He admitted that a certain thickness must be assigned to the intervening spheres to cover the greatest and least distances of the several planets from the sun, but even then some of the numbers obtained are not a very close fit for the corresponding planetary orbits. Kepler's own suggested explanation of the discordances was that they must be due to erroneous measures of the planetary distances, and this, in those days of crude and infrequent observations, could not easily be disproved. He next thought of a variety of reasons why the five regular solids should occur in precisely the order given and in no other, diverging from this into a subtle and not very intelligible process of reasoning to account for the division of the zodiac into 360. The next subject was more important, and dealt with the relation between the distances of the planets and their times of revolution round the sun. It was obvious that the period was not simply proportional to the distance, as the outer planets were all too slow for this, and he concluded \"either that the moving intelligences of the planets are weakest in those that are farthest from the sun, or that there is one moving intelligence in the sun, the common centre, forcing them all round, but those most violently which are nearest, and that it languishes in some sort and grows weaker at the most distant, because of the remoteness and the attenuation of the virtue\". This is not so near a guess at the theory of gravitation as might be supposed, for Kepler imagined that a repulsive force was necessary to account for the planets being sometimes further from the sun, and so laid aside the idea of a constant attractive force. He made several other attempts to find a law connecting the distances and periods of the planets, but without success at that time, and only desisted when by unconsciously arguing in a circle he appeared to get the same result from two totally different hypotheses. He sent copies of his book to several leading astronomers, of whom Galileo praised his ingenuity and good faith, while Tycho Brahe was evidently much struck with the work and advised him to adapt something similar to the Tychonic system instead of the Copernican. He also intimated that his Uraniborg observations would provide more accurate determinations of the planetary orbits, and thus made Kepler eager to visit him, a project which as we shall see was more than fulfilled. Another copy of the book Kepler sent to Reymers the Imperial astronomer with a most fulsome letter, which Tycho, who asserted that Reymers had simply plagiarised his work, very strongly resented, thus drawing from Kepler a long letter of apology. About the same time Kepler had married a lady already twice widowed, and become involved in difficulties with her relatives on financial grounds, and with the Styrian authorities in connection with the religious disputes then coming to a head. On account of these latter he thought it expedient, the year after his marriage, to withdraw to Hungary, from whence he sent short treatises to Tbingen, \"On the magnet\" (following the ideas of Gilbert of Colchester), \"On the cause of the obliquity of the ecliptic\" and \"On the Divine wisdom as shown in the Creation\". His next important step makes it desirable to devote a chapter to a short notice of Tycho Brahe.","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures John Kepler's early life, education, and entry into astronomy, emphasizing his challenges, influences, and the development of his innovative ideas, particularly his work 'Mysterium Cosmographicum' and his proposal of the five regular solids to explain planetary orbits.","original_text":"On 21st December, 1571, at Weil in the Duchy of Wurtemberg, was born a weak and sickly seven-months' child, to whom his parents Henry and Catherine Kepler gave the name of John. Henry Kepler was a petty officer in the service of the reigning Duke, and in 1576 joined the army serving in the Netherlands. His wife followed him, leaving her young son in his grandfather's care at Leonberg, where he barely recovered from a severe attack of smallpox. It was from this place that John derived the Latinised name of Leonmontanus, in accordance with the common practice of the time, but he was not known by it to any great extent. He was sent to school in 1577, but in the following year his father returned to Germany, almost ruined by the absconding of an acquaintance for whom he had become surety. Henry Kepler was obliged to sell his house and most of his belongings, and to keep a tavern at Elmendingen, withdrawing his son from school to help him with the rough work. In 1583 young Kepler was sent to the school at Elmendingen, and in 1584 had another narrow escape from death by a violent illness. In 1586 he was sent, at the charges of the Duke, to the monastic school of Maulbronn; from whence, in accordance with the school regulations, he passed at the end of his first year the examination for the bachelor's degree at Tbingen, returning for two more years as a \"veteran\" to Maulbronn before being admitted as a resident student at Tbingen. The three years thus spent at Maulbronn were marked by recurrences of several of the diseases from which he had suffered in childhood, and also by family troubles at his home. His father went away after a quarrel with his wife Catherine, and died abroad. Catherine herself, who seems to have been of a very unamiable disposition, next quarrelled with her own relatives. It is not surprising therefore that Kepler after taking his M.A. degree in August, 1591, coming out second in the examination lists, was ready to accept the first appointment offered him, even if it should involve leaving home. This happened to be the lectureship in astronomy at Gratz, the chief town in Styria. Kepler's knowledge of astronomy was limited to the compulsory school course, nor had he as yet any particular leaning towards the science; the post, moreover, was a meagre and unimportant one. On the other hand he had frequently expressed disgust at the way in which one after another of his companions had refused \"foreign\" appointments which had been arranged for them under the Duke's scheme of education. His tutors also strongly urged him to accept the lectureship, and he had not the usual reluctance to leave home. He therefore proceeded to Gratz, protesting that he did not thereby forfeit his claim to a more promising opening, when such should appear. His astronomical tutor, Maestlin, encouraged him to devote himself to his newly adopted science, and the first result of this advice appeared before very long in Kepler's \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". The bent of his mind was towards philosophical speculation, to which he had been attracted in his youthful studies of Scaliger's \"Exoteric Exercises\". He says he devoted much time \"to the examination of the nature of heaven, of souls, of genii, of the elements, of the essence of fire, of the cause of fountains, the ebb and flow of the tides, the shape of the continents and inland seas, and things of this sort\". Following his tutor in his admiration for the Copernican theory, he wrote an essay on the primary motion, attributing it to the rotation of the earth, and this not for the mathematical reasons brought forward by Copernicus, but, as he himself says, on physical or metaphysical grounds. In 1595, having more leisure from lectures, he turned his speculative mind to the number, size, and motion of the planetary orbits. He first tried simple numerical relations, but none of them appeared to be twice, thrice, or four times as great as another, although he felt convinced that there was some relation between the motions and the distances, seeing that when a gap appeared in one series, there was a corresponding gap in the other. These gaps he attempted to fill by hypothetical planets between Mars and Jupiter, and between Mercury and Venus, but this method also failed to provide the regular proportion which he sought, besides being open to the objection that on the same principle there might be many more equally invisible planets at either end of the series. He was nevertheless unwilling to adopt the opinion of Rheticus that the number six was sacred, maintaining that the \"sacredness\" of the number was of much more recent date than the creation of the worlds, and could not therefore account for it. He next tried an ingenious idea, comparing the perpendiculars from different points of a quadrant of a circle on a tangent at its extremity. The greatest of these, the tangent, not being cut by the quadrant, he called the line of the sun, and associated with infinite force. The shortest, being the point at the other end of the quadrant, thus corresponded to the fixed stars or zero force; intermediate ones were to be found proportional to the \"forces\" of the six planets. After a great amount of unfinished trial calculations, which took nearly a whole summer, he convinced himself that success did not lie that way. In July, 1595, while lecturing on the great planetary conjunctions, he drew quasi-triangles in a circular zodiac showing the slow progression of these points of conjunction at intervals of just over 240 or eight signs. The successive chords marked out a smaller circle to which they were tangents, about half the diameter of the zodiacal circle as drawn, and Kepler at once saw a similarity to the orbits of Saturn and Jupiter, the radius of the inscribed circle of an equilateral triangle being half that of the circumscribed circle. His natural sequence of ideas impelled him to try a square, in the hope that the circumscribed and inscribed circles might give him a similar \"analogy\" for the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. He next tried a pentagon and so on, but he soon noted that he would never reach the sun that way, nor would he find any such limitation as six, the number of \"possibles\" being obviously infinite. The actual planets moreover were not even six but only five, so far as he knew, so he next pondered the question of what sort of things these could be of which only five different figures were possible and suddenly thought of the five regular solids.[2] He immediately pounced upon this idea and ultimately evolved the following scheme. \"The earth is the sphere, the measure of all; round it describe a dodecahedron; the sphere including this will be Mars. Round Mars describe a tetrahedron; the sphere including this will be Jupiter. Describe a cube round Jupiter; the sphere including this will be Saturn. Now, inscribe in the earth an icosahedron, the sphere inscribed in it will be Venus: inscribe an octahedron in Venus: the circle inscribed in it will be Mercury.\" With this result Kepler was inordinately pleased, and regretted not a moment of the time spent in obtaining it, though to us this \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" can only appear useless, even without the more recent additions to the known planets. He admitted that a certain thickness must be assigned to the intervening spheres to cover the greatest and least distances of the several planets from the sun, but even then some of the numbers obtained are not a very close fit for the corresponding planetary orbits. Kepler's own suggested explanation of the discordances was that they must be due to erroneous measures of the planetary distances, and this, in those days of crude and infrequent observations, could not easily be disproved. He next thought of a variety of reasons why the five regular solids should occur in precisely the order given and in no other, diverging from this into a subtle and not very intelligible process of reasoning to account for the division of the zodiac into 360. The next subject was more important, and dealt with the relation between the distances of the planets and their times of revolution round the sun. It was obvious that the period was not simply proportional to the distance, as the outer planets were all too slow for this, and he concluded \"either that the moving intelligences of the planets are weakest in those that are farthest from the sun, or that there is one moving intelligence in the sun, the common centre, forcing them all round, but those most violently which are nearest, and that it languishes in some sort and grows weaker at the most distant, because of the remoteness and the attenuation of the virtue\". This is not so near a guess at the theory of gravitation as might be supposed, for Kepler imagined that a repulsive force was necessary to account for the planets being sometimes further from the sun, and so laid aside the idea of a constant attractive force. He made several other attempts to find a law connecting the distances and periods of the planets, but without success at that time, and only desisted when by unconsciously arguing in a circle he appeared to get the same result from two totally different hypotheses. He sent copies of his book to several leading astronomers, of whom Galileo praised his ingenuity and good faith, while Tycho Brahe was evidently much struck with the work and advised him to adapt something similar to the Tychonic system instead of the Copernican. He also intimated that his Uraniborg observations would provide more accurate determinations of the planetary orbits, and thus made Kepler eager to visit him, a project which as we shall see was more than fulfilled. Another copy of the book Kepler sent to Reymers the Imperial astronomer with a most fulsome letter, which Tycho, who asserted that Reymers had simply plagiarised his work, very strongly resented, thus drawing from Kepler a long letter of apology. About the same time Kepler had married a lady already twice widowed, and become involved in difficulties with her relatives on financial grounds, and with the Styrian authorities in connection with the religious disputes then coming to a head. On account of these latter he thought it expedient, the year after his marriage, to withdraw to Hungary, from whence he sent short treatises to Tbingen, \"On the magnet\" (following the ideas of Gilbert of Colchester), \"On the cause of the obliquity of the ecliptic\" and \"On the Divine wisdom as shown in the Creation\". His next important step makes it desirable to devote a chapter to a short notice of Tycho Brahe.","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph provides a detailed account of the early life and educational journey of John Kepler, born in 1571 in Weil, Duchy of Wurtemberg. Despite facing family hardships and health issues, Kepler's academic path led him to Maulbronn and later Tbingen, where he excelled in his studies. Eventually, he accepted a lectureship in astronomy in Gratz, despite his initial lack of interest in the subject. Encouraged by his tutor Maestlin, Kepler delved into philosophical and astronomical speculations, leading to his work \"Mysterium Cosmographicum.\" He explored numerical relations of planetary orbits, proposed hypothetical planets, and eventually pondered the concept of the five regular solids to explain planetary distances. Kepler's work received mixed reviews from astronomers like Galileo and Tycho Brahe, with the latter suggesting adjustments to the Copernican system. The paragraph concludes with Kepler's marriage, financial troubles, and relocation to Hungary due to religious disputes, marking a significant transition in his life and work.","original_text":"On 21st December, 1571, at Weil in the Duchy of Wurtemberg, was born a weak and sickly seven-months' child, to whom his parents Henry and Catherine Kepler gave the name of John. Henry Kepler was a petty officer in the service of the reigning Duke, and in 1576 joined the army serving in the Netherlands. His wife followed him, leaving her young son in his grandfather's care at Leonberg, where he barely recovered from a severe attack of smallpox. It was from this place that John derived the Latinised name of Leonmontanus, in accordance with the common practice of the time, but he was not known by it to any great extent. He was sent to school in 1577, but in the following year his father returned to Germany, almost ruined by the absconding of an acquaintance for whom he had become surety. Henry Kepler was obliged to sell his house and most of his belongings, and to keep a tavern at Elmendingen, withdrawing his son from school to help him with the rough work. In 1583 young Kepler was sent to the school at Elmendingen, and in 1584 had another narrow escape from death by a violent illness. In 1586 he was sent, at the charges of the Duke, to the monastic school of Maulbronn; from whence, in accordance with the school regulations, he passed at the end of his first year the examination for the bachelor's degree at Tbingen, returning for two more years as a \"veteran\" to Maulbronn before being admitted as a resident student at Tbingen. The three years thus spent at Maulbronn were marked by recurrences of several of the diseases from which he had suffered in childhood, and also by family troubles at his home. His father went away after a quarrel with his wife Catherine, and died abroad. Catherine herself, who seems to have been of a very unamiable disposition, next quarrelled with her own relatives. It is not surprising therefore that Kepler after taking his M.A. degree in August, 1591, coming out second in the examination lists, was ready to accept the first appointment offered him, even if it should involve leaving home. This happened to be the lectureship in astronomy at Gratz, the chief town in Styria. Kepler's knowledge of astronomy was limited to the compulsory school course, nor had he as yet any particular leaning towards the science; the post, moreover, was a meagre and unimportant one. On the other hand he had frequently expressed disgust at the way in which one after another of his companions had refused \"foreign\" appointments which had been arranged for them under the Duke's scheme of education. His tutors also strongly urged him to accept the lectureship, and he had not the usual reluctance to leave home. He therefore proceeded to Gratz, protesting that he did not thereby forfeit his claim to a more promising opening, when such should appear. His astronomical tutor, Maestlin, encouraged him to devote himself to his newly adopted science, and the first result of this advice appeared before very long in Kepler's \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". The bent of his mind was towards philosophical speculation, to which he had been attracted in his youthful studies of Scaliger's \"Exoteric Exercises\". He says he devoted much time \"to the examination of the nature of heaven, of souls, of genii, of the elements, of the essence of fire, of the cause of fountains, the ebb and flow of the tides, the shape of the continents and inland seas, and things of this sort\". Following his tutor in his admiration for the Copernican theory, he wrote an essay on the primary motion, attributing it to the rotation of the earth, and this not for the mathematical reasons brought forward by Copernicus, but, as he himself says, on physical or metaphysical grounds. In 1595, having more leisure from lectures, he turned his speculative mind to the number, size, and motion of the planetary orbits. He first tried simple numerical relations, but none of them appeared to be twice, thrice, or four times as great as another, although he felt convinced that there was some relation between the motions and the distances, seeing that when a gap appeared in one series, there was a corresponding gap in the other. These gaps he attempted to fill by hypothetical planets between Mars and Jupiter, and between Mercury and Venus, but this method also failed to provide the regular proportion which he sought, besides being open to the objection that on the same principle there might be many more equally invisible planets at either end of the series. He was nevertheless unwilling to adopt the opinion of Rheticus that the number six was sacred, maintaining that the \"sacredness\" of the number was of much more recent date than the creation of the worlds, and could not therefore account for it. He next tried an ingenious idea, comparing the perpendiculars from different points of a quadrant of a circle on a tangent at its extremity. The greatest of these, the tangent, not being cut by the quadrant, he called the line of the sun, and associated with infinite force. The shortest, being the point at the other end of the quadrant, thus corresponded to the fixed stars or zero force; intermediate ones were to be found proportional to the \"forces\" of the six planets. After a great amount of unfinished trial calculations, which took nearly a whole summer, he convinced himself that success did not lie that way. In July, 1595, while lecturing on the great planetary conjunctions, he drew quasi-triangles in a circular zodiac showing the slow progression of these points of conjunction at intervals of just over 240 or eight signs. The successive chords marked out a smaller circle to which they were tangents, about half the diameter of the zodiacal circle as drawn, and Kepler at once saw a similarity to the orbits of Saturn and Jupiter, the radius of the inscribed circle of an equilateral triangle being half that of the circumscribed circle. His natural sequence of ideas impelled him to try a square, in the hope that the circumscribed and inscribed circles might give him a similar \"analogy\" for the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. He next tried a pentagon and so on, but he soon noted that he would never reach the sun that way, nor would he find any such limitation as six, the number of \"possibles\" being obviously infinite. The actual planets moreover were not even six but only five, so far as he knew, so he next pondered the question of what sort of things these could be of which only five different figures were possible and suddenly thought of the five regular solids.[2] He immediately pounced upon this idea and ultimately evolved the following scheme. \"The earth is the sphere, the measure of all; round it describe a dodecahedron; the sphere including this will be Mars. Round Mars describe a tetrahedron; the sphere including this will be Jupiter. Describe a cube round Jupiter; the sphere including this will be Saturn. Now, inscribe in the earth an icosahedron, the sphere inscribed in it will be Venus: inscribe an octahedron in Venus: the circle inscribed in it will be Mercury.\" With this result Kepler was inordinately pleased, and regretted not a moment of the time spent in obtaining it, though to us this \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" can only appear useless, even without the more recent additions to the known planets. He admitted that a certain thickness must be assigned to the intervening spheres to cover the greatest and least distances of the several planets from the sun, but even then some of the numbers obtained are not a very close fit for the corresponding planetary orbits. Kepler's own suggested explanation of the discordances was that they must be due to erroneous measures of the planetary distances, and this, in those days of crude and infrequent observations, could not easily be disproved. He next thought of a variety of reasons why the five regular solids should occur in precisely the order given and in no other, diverging from this into a subtle and not very intelligible process of reasoning to account for the division of the zodiac into 360. The next subject was more important, and dealt with the relation between the distances of the planets and their times of revolution round the sun. It was obvious that the period was not simply proportional to the distance, as the outer planets were all too slow for this, and he concluded \"either that the moving intelligences of the planets are weakest in those that are farthest from the sun, or that there is one moving intelligence in the sun, the common centre, forcing them all round, but those most violently which are nearest, and that it languishes in some sort and grows weaker at the most distant, because of the remoteness and the attenuation of the virtue\". This is not so near a guess at the theory of gravitation as might be supposed, for Kepler imagined that a repulsive force was necessary to account for the planets being sometimes further from the sun, and so laid aside the idea of a constant attractive force. He made several other attempts to find a law connecting the distances and periods of the planets, but without success at that time, and only desisted when by unconsciously arguing in a circle he appeared to get the same result from two totally different hypotheses. He sent copies of his book to several leading astronomers, of whom Galileo praised his ingenuity and good faith, while Tycho Brahe was evidently much struck with the work and advised him to adapt something similar to the Tychonic system instead of the Copernican. He also intimated that his Uraniborg observations would provide more accurate determinations of the planetary orbits, and thus made Kepler eager to visit him, a project which as we shall see was more than fulfilled. Another copy of the book Kepler sent to Reymers the Imperial astronomer with a most fulsome letter, which Tycho, who asserted that Reymers had simply plagiarised his work, very strongly resented, thus drawing from Kepler a long letter of apology. About the same time Kepler had married a lady already twice widowed, and become involved in difficulties with her relatives on financial grounds, and with the Styrian authorities in connection with the religious disputes then coming to a head. On account of these latter he thought it expedient, the year after his marriage, to withdraw to Hungary, from whence he sent short treatises to Tbingen, \"On the magnet\" (following the ideas of Gilbert of Colchester), \"On the cause of the obliquity of the ecliptic\" and \"On the Divine wisdom as shown in the Creation\". His next important step makes it desirable to devote a chapter to a short notice of Tycho Brahe.","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph explains the constraints and possibilities of regular solids, outlining that only a few forms are feasible due to the limitation on the sum of plane angles at a corner. It details the viable options, including the dodecahedron, cube, tetrahedron, octahedron, and icosahedron.","original_text":"[Footnote 2: Since the sum of the plane angles at a corner of a regular solid must be less than four right angles, it is easily seen that few regular solids are possible. Hexagonal faces are clearly impossible, or any polygonal faces with more than five sides. The possible forms are the dodecahedron with twelve pentagonal faces, three meeting at each corner; the cube, six square faces, three meeting at each corner; and three figures with triangular faces, the tetrahedron of four faces, three meeting at each corner; the octahedron of eight faces, four meeting at each corner; and the icosahedron of twenty faces, five meeting at each corner.]","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary succinctly presents the limitations and possibilities of regular solids, outlining the feasible forms like the dodecahedron, cube, tetrahedron, octahedron, and icosahedron, while emphasizing the constraints on their angles and faces.","original_text":"[Footnote 2: Since the sum of the plane angles at a corner of a regular solid must be less than four right angles, it is easily seen that few regular solids are possible. Hexagonal faces are clearly impossible, or any polygonal faces with more than five sides. The possible forms are the dodecahedron with twelve pentagonal faces, three meeting at each corner; the cube, six square faces, three meeting at each corner; and three figures with triangular faces, the tetrahedron of four faces, three meeting at each corner; the octahedron of eight faces, four meeting at each corner; and the icosahedron of twenty faces, five meeting at each corner.]","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph delves into the constraints and possibilities of regular solids determined by the sum of plane angles at a corner. It highlights the limited feasible shapes, excluding those with hexagonal faces or polygons exceeding five sides, and identifies the viable forms such as the dodecahedron, cube, tetrahedron, octahedron, and icosahedron.","original_text":"[Footnote 2: Since the sum of the plane angles at a corner of a regular solid must be less than four right angles, it is easily seen that few regular solids are possible. Hexagonal faces are clearly impossible, or any polygonal faces with more than five sides. The possible forms are the dodecahedron with twelve pentagonal faces, three meeting at each corner; the cube, six square faces, three meeting at each corner; and three figures with triangular faces, the tetrahedron of four faces, three meeting at each corner; the octahedron of eight faces, four meeting at each corner; and the icosahedron of twenty faces, five meeting at each corner.]","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the concept of regular solids and their relation to the planets, as explored by Kepler in his work \"Mysterium Cosmographicum.\" Kepler proposed a theory where each planet is associated with a specific regular solid inscribed within spheres, with the Earth as the sphere and the dodecahedron representing Mars, the tetrahedron Jupiter, the cube Saturn, the icosahedron Venus, and the octahedron Mercury. Kepler's fascination with this theory stemmed from his belief in a divine order governing the universe. The paragraph also explains the limitations on the possible forms of regular solids due to the sum of plane angles at a corner being less than four right angles, leading to the conclusion that only a few regular solids are feasible, such as the dodecahedron, cube, tetrahedron, octahedron, and icosahedron.","original_text":"[Footnote 2: Since the sum of the plane angles at a corner of a regular solid must be less than four right angles, it is easily seen that few regular solids are possible. Hexagonal faces are clearly impossible, or any polygonal faces with more than five sides. The possible forms are the dodecahedron with twelve pentagonal faces, three meeting at each corner; the cube, six square faces, three meeting at each corner; and three figures with triangular faces, the tetrahedron of four faces, three meeting at each corner; the octahedron of eight faces, four meeting at each corner; and the icosahedron of twenty faces, five meeting at each corner.]","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Chapter II of Walter W. Bryant's book on Kepler provides a detailed account of the early life, education, and initial forays into astronomy of Johannes Kepler, a seminal figure in the scientific revolution of the 17th century. Born on December 21, 1571, in Weil, Duchy of Wurtemberg, Kepler faced numerous health challenges and familial difficulties from an early age. His father, Henry Kepler, a petty officer, and his mother, Catherine, left young Kepler under his grandfather's care, which marked the beginning of a tumultuous childhood marked by illness and family strife.\n\nDespite these hardships, Kepler's intellectual promise earned him a place at the monastic school of Maulbronn through the support of the Duke, followed by his admission to the University of Tbingen. It was here that Kepler, initially without a strong inclination towards astronomy, began his academic and philosophical exploration under the guidance of his tutor Maestlin. This period was crucial for Kepler's development, as he delved into philosophical speculation and the Copernican theory of the universe, which posited that the Earth and planets orbit the sun.\n\nKepler's move to Gratz to take up a lectureship in astronomy marked the beginning of his significant contributions to the field. Despite his initial limited knowledge, Kepler's speculative mind led him to profound inquiries into the nature of the cosmos, culminating in his work \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". In this work, Kepler proposed a model of the solar system using the five Platonic solids to explain the distances between the planets and the sun, a theory that, while flawed, showcased his innovative approach to understanding the universe.\n\nKepler's relentless pursuit of knowledge and understanding also led him to explore the relationship between the distances of planets from the sun and their orbital periods. This exploration, although not immediately fruitful, laid the groundwork for his later discovery of the laws of planetary motion that bear his name. His correspondence with contemporary astronomers like Galileo and Tycho Brahe, and his personal challenges, including marital and financial difficulties, as well as religious disputes, are also highlighted, underscoring the complex interplay of personal and professional life in Kepler's journey.\n\nThe chapter concludes with a transition to Kepler's interaction with Tycho Brahe, setting the stage for further developments in Kepler's astronomical work. Through Bryant's detailed narrative, we gain insight into the early life of Johannes Kepler, whose blend of philosophical speculation and empirical investigation led to groundbreaking advancements in astronomy, fundamentally altering our understanding of the universe.","original_text":"On 21st December, 1571, at Weil in the Duchy of Wurtemberg, was born a weak and sickly seven-months' child, to whom his parents Henry and Catherine Kepler gave the name of John. Henry Kepler was a petty officer in the service of the reigning Duke, and in 1576 joined the army serving in the Netherlands. His wife followed him, leaving her young son in his grandfather's care at Leonberg, where he barely recovered from a severe attack of smallpox. It was from this place that John derived the Latinised name of Leonmontanus, in accordance with the common practice of the time, but he was not known by it to any great extent. He was sent to school in 1577, but in the following year his father returned to Germany, almost ruined by the absconding of an acquaintance for whom he had become surety. Henry Kepler was obliged to sell his house and most of his belongings, and to keep a tavern at Elmendingen, withdrawing his son from school to help him with the rough work. In 1583 young Kepler was sent to the school at Elmendingen, and in 1584 had another narrow escape from death by a violent illness. In 1586 he was sent, at the charges of the Duke, to the monastic school of Maulbronn; from whence, in accordance with the school regulations, he passed at the end of his first year the examination for the bachelor's degree at Tbingen, returning for two more years as a \"veteran\" to Maulbronn before being admitted as a resident student at Tbingen. The three years thus spent at Maulbronn were marked by recurrences of several of the diseases from which he had suffered in childhood, and also by family troubles at his home. His father went away after a quarrel with his wife Catherine, and died abroad. Catherine herself, who seems to have been of a very unamiable disposition, next quarrelled with her own relatives. It is not surprising therefore that Kepler after taking his M.A. degree in August, 1591, coming out second in the examination lists, was ready to accept the first appointment offered him, even if it should involve leaving home. This happened to be the lectureship in astronomy at Gratz, the chief town in Styria. Kepler's knowledge of astronomy was limited to the compulsory school course, nor had he as yet any particular leaning towards the science; the post, moreover, was a meagre and unimportant one. On the other hand he had frequently expressed disgust at the way in which one after another of his companions had refused \"foreign\" appointments which had been arranged for them under the Duke's scheme of education. His tutors also strongly urged him to accept the lectureship, and he had not the usual reluctance to leave home. He therefore proceeded to Gratz, protesting that he did not thereby forfeit his claim to a more promising opening, when such should appear. His astronomical tutor, Maestlin, encouraged him to devote himself to his newly adopted science, and the first result of this advice appeared before very long in Kepler's \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\". The bent of his mind was towards philosophical speculation, to which he had been attracted in his youthful studies of Scaliger's \"Exoteric Exercises\". He says he devoted much time \"to the examination of the nature of heaven, of souls, of genii, of the elements, of the essence of fire, of the cause of fountains, the ebb and flow of the tides, the shape of the continents and inland seas, and things of this sort\". Following his tutor in his admiration for the Copernican theory, he wrote an essay on the primary motion, attributing it to the rotation of the earth, and this not for the mathematical reasons brought forward by Copernicus, but, as he himself says, on physical or metaphysical grounds. In 1595, having more leisure from lectures, he turned his speculative mind to the number, size, and motion of the planetary orbits. He first tried simple numerical relations, but none of them appeared to be twice, thrice, or four times as great as another, although he felt convinced that there was some relation between the motions and the distances, seeing that when a gap appeared in one series, there was a corresponding gap in the other. These gaps he attempted to fill by hypothetical planets between Mars and Jupiter, and between Mercury and Venus, but this method also failed to provide the regular proportion which he sought, besides being open to the objection that on the same principle there might be many more equally invisible planets at either end of the series. He was nevertheless unwilling to adopt the opinion of Rheticus that the number six was sacred, maintaining that the \"sacredness\" of the number was of much more recent date than the creation of the worlds, and could not therefore account for it. He next tried an ingenious idea, comparing the perpendiculars from different points of a quadrant of a circle on a tangent at its extremity. The greatest of these, the tangent, not being cut by the quadrant, he called the line of the sun, and associated with infinite force. The shortest, being the point at the other end of the quadrant, thus corresponded to the fixed stars or zero force; intermediate ones were to be found proportional to the \"forces\" of the six planets. After a great amount of unfinished trial calculations, which took nearly a whole summer, he convinced himself that success did not lie that way. In July, 1595, while lecturing on the great planetary conjunctions, he drew quasi-triangles in a circular zodiac showing the slow progression of these points of conjunction at intervals of just over 240 or eight signs. The successive chords marked out a smaller circle to which they were tangents, about half the diameter of the zodiacal circle as drawn, and Kepler at once saw a similarity to the orbits of Saturn and Jupiter, the radius of the inscribed circle of an equilateral triangle being half that of the circumscribed circle. His natural sequence of ideas impelled him to try a square, in the hope that the circumscribed and inscribed circles might give him a similar \"analogy\" for the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. He next tried a pentagon and so on, but he soon noted that he would never reach the sun that way, nor would he find any such limitation as six, the number of \"possibles\" being obviously infinite. The actual planets moreover were not even six but only five, so far as he knew, so he next pondered the question of what sort of things these could be of which only five different figures were possible and suddenly thought of the five regular solids.[2] He immediately pounced upon this idea and ultimately evolved the following scheme. \"The earth is the sphere, the measure of all; round it describe a dodecahedron; the sphere including this will be Mars. Round Mars describe a tetrahedron; the sphere including this will be Jupiter. Describe a cube round Jupiter; the sphere including this will be Saturn. Now, inscribe in the earth an icosahedron, the sphere inscribed in it will be Venus: inscribe an octahedron in Venus: the circle inscribed in it will be Mercury.\" With this result Kepler was inordinately pleased, and regretted not a moment of the time spent in obtaining it, though to us this \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" can only appear useless, even without the more recent additions to the known planets. He admitted that a certain thickness must be assigned to the intervening spheres to cover the greatest and least distances of the several planets from the sun, but even then some of the numbers obtained are not a very close fit for the corresponding planetary orbits. Kepler's own suggested explanation of the discordances was that they must be due to erroneous measures of the planetary distances, and this, in those days of crude and infrequent observations, could not easily be disproved. He next thought of a variety of reasons why the five regular solids should occur in precisely the order given and in no other, diverging from this into a subtle and not very intelligible process of reasoning to account for the division of the zodiac into 360. The next subject was more important, and dealt with the relation between the distances of the planets and their times of revolution round the sun. It was obvious that the period was not simply proportional to the distance, as the outer planets were all too slow for this, and he concluded \"either that the moving intelligences of the planets are weakest in those that are farthest from the sun, or that there is one moving intelligence in the sun, the common centre, forcing them all round, but those most violently which are nearest, and that it languishes in some sort and grows weaker at the most distant, because of the remoteness and the attenuation of the virtue\". This is not so near a guess at the theory of gravitation as might be supposed, for Kepler imagined that a repulsive force was necessary to account for the planets being sometimes further from the sun, and so laid aside the idea of a constant attractive force. He made several other attempts to find a law connecting the distances and periods of the planets, but without success at that time, and only desisted when by unconsciously arguing in a circle he appeared to get the same result from two totally different hypotheses. He sent copies of his book to several leading astronomers, of whom Galileo praised his ingenuity and good faith, while Tycho Brahe was evidently much struck with the work and advised him to adapt something similar to the Tychonic system instead of the Copernican. He also intimated that his Uraniborg observations would provide more accurate determinations of the planetary orbits, and thus made Kepler eager to visit him, a project which as we shall see was more than fulfilled. Another copy of the book Kepler sent to Reymers the Imperial astronomer with a most fulsome letter, which Tycho, who asserted that Reymers had simply plagiarised his work, very strongly resented, thus drawing from Kepler a long letter of apology. About the same time Kepler had married a lady already twice widowed, and become involved in difficulties with her relatives on financial grounds, and with the Styrian authorities in connection with the religious disputes then coming to a head. On account of these latter he thought it expedient, the year after his marriage, to withdraw to Hungary, from whence he sent short treatises to Tbingen, \"On the magnet\" (following the ideas of Gilbert of Colchester), \"On the cause of the obliquity of the ecliptic\" and \"On the Divine wisdom as shown in the Creation\". His next important step makes it desirable to devote a chapter to a short notice of Tycho Brahe.\n\n[Footnote 2: Since the sum of the plane angles at a corner of a regular solid must be less than four right angles, it is easily seen that few regular solids are possible. Hexagonal faces are clearly impossible, or any polygonal faces with more than five sides. The possible forms are the dodecahedron with twelve pentagonal faces, three meeting at each corner; the cube, six square faces, three meeting at each corner; and three figures with triangular faces, the tetrahedron of four faces, three meeting at each corner; the octahedron of eight faces, four meeting at each corner; and the icosahedron of twenty faces, five meeting at each corner.]","categories":["Mathematics :: Study of regular solids and their properties","Education and Career of Johannes Kepler :: Details Kepler's education, career choices, and early works in astronomy","Birth and Early Life of Johannes Kepler :: Describes the early life and challenges faced by Johannes Kepler"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER II.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chapter"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the significant figures in astronomy following Copernicus, highlighting Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler. It emphasizes the contributions of each figure, with Tycho Brahe's observations being crucial for Kepler's discoveries.","original_text":"The age following that of Copernicus produced three outstanding figures associated with the science of astronomy, then reaching the close of what Professor Forbes so aptly styles the geometrical period. These three Sir David Brewster has termed \"Martyrs of Science\"; Galileo, the great Italian philosopher, has his own place among the \"Pioneers of Science\"; and invaluable though Tycho Brahe's work was, the latter can hardly be claimed as a pioneer in the same sense as the other two. Nevertheless, Kepler, the third member of the trio, could not have made his most valuable discoveries without Tycho's observations.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the significant figures in astronomy post-Copernicus, with Sir David Brewster categorizing them as 'Martyrs of Science,' highlighting Galileo as a pioneer, and acknowledging Tycho Brahe's valuable but non-pioneering work. It underscores the crucial role of Tycho Brahe's observations in enabling Kepler to make key discoveries.","original_text":"The age following that of Copernicus produced three outstanding figures associated with the science of astronomy, then reaching the close of what Professor Forbes so aptly styles the geometrical period. These three Sir David Brewster has termed \"Martyrs of Science\"; Galileo, the great Italian philosopher, has his own place among the \"Pioneers of Science\"; and invaluable though Tycho Brahe's work was, the latter can hardly be claimed as a pioneer in the same sense as the other two. Nevertheless, Kepler, the third member of the trio, could not have made his most valuable discoveries without Tycho's observations.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the significant figures in astronomy following Copernicus, highlighting Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler. It distinguishes between them, with Galileo being a pioneer, Tycho Brahe's work being valuable but not pioneering in the same way, and Kepler relying on Tycho's observations for his discoveries.","original_text":"The age following that of Copernicus produced three outstanding figures associated with the science of astronomy, then reaching the close of what Professor Forbes so aptly styles the geometrical period. These three Sir David Brewster has termed \"Martyrs of Science\"; Galileo, the great Italian philosopher, has his own place among the \"Pioneers of Science\"; and invaluable though Tycho Brahe's work was, the latter can hardly be claimed as a pioneer in the same sense as the other two. Nevertheless, Kepler, the third member of the trio, could not have made his most valuable discoveries without Tycho's observations.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In the chapter \"CHAPTER III\" of the book \"Kepler\" by Walter W. Bryant, the text discusses the significant figures in astronomy during the period following Copernicus. It highlights three key individuals: Galileo, considered a pioneer of science; Tycho Brahe, whose work was invaluable but not pioneering in the same sense; and Kepler, who is recognized as a crucial figure in making important discoveries, particularly benefiting from Tycho's observations. The text emphasizes the interconnectedness of these figures in advancing the science of astronomy, with Kepler building upon the groundwork laid by his predecessors.","original_text":"The age following that of Copernicus produced three outstanding figures associated with the science of astronomy, then reaching the close of what Professor Forbes so aptly styles the geometrical period. These three Sir David Brewster has termed \"Martyrs of Science\"; Galileo, the great Italian philosopher, has his own place among the \"Pioneers of Science\"; and invaluable though Tycho Brahe's work was, the latter can hardly be claimed as a pioneer in the same sense as the other two. Nevertheless, Kepler, the third member of the trio, could not have made his most valuable discoveries without Tycho's observations.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Tycho Brahe, born into nobility in 1546 in Scania, was raised by his childless uncle who fostered his education. Initially destined for a political career, Tycho's interest in astronomy was sparked by a solar eclipse in 1560. Despite being sent to study law, Tycho's passion for astronomy persisted. He discovered inaccuracies in existing astronomical tables and emphasized the importance of continuous observation. Tycho's astronomical pursuits led him to Wittenberg and later to Rostock, where he faced challenges but continued his studies. Eventually, Tycho received support from the King of Denmark, securing a position that allowed him to focus on his astronomical work. He then moved to Augsburg, where he initiated the construction of significant astronomical instruments, marking the beginning of his renowned contributions to the field.","original_text":"Of noble family, born a twin on 14th December, 1546, at Knudstrup in Scania (the southernmost part of Sweden, then forming part of the kingdom of Denmark), Tycho was kidnapped a year later by a childless uncle. This uncle brought him up as his own son, provided him at the age of seven with a tutor, and sent him in 1559 to the University of Copenhagen, to study for a political career by taking courses in rhetoric and philosophy. On 21st August, 1560, however, a solar eclipse took place, total in Portugal, and therefore of small proportions in Denmark, and Tycho's keen interest was awakened, not so much by the phenomenon, as by the fact that it had occurred according to prediction. Soon afterwards he purchased an edition of Ptolemy in order to read up the subject of astronomy, to which, and to mathematics, he devoted most of the remainder of his three years' course at Copenhagen. His uncle next sent him to Leipzig to study law, but he managed to continue his astronomical researches. He obtained the Alphonsine and the new Prutenic Tables, but soon found that the latter, though more accurate than the former, failed to represent the true positions of the planets, and grasped the fact that continuous observation was essential in order to determine the true motions. He began by observing a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in August, 1563, and found the Prutenic Tables several days in error, and the Alphonsine a whole month. He provided himself with a cross-staff for determining the angular distance between stars or other objects, and, finding the divisions of the scale inaccurate, constructed a table of corrections, an improvement that seems to have been a decided innovation, the previous practice having been to use the best available instrument and ignore its errors. About this time war broke out between Denmark and Sweden, and Tycho returned to his uncle, who was vice-admiral and attached to the king's suite. The uncle died in the following month, and early in the next year Tycho went abroad again, this time to Wittenberg. After five months, however, an outbreak of plague drove him away, and he matriculated at Rostock, where he found little astronomy but a good deal of astrology. While there he fought a duel in the dark and lost part of his nose, which he replaced by a composition of gold and silver. He carried on regular observations with his cross-staff and persevered with his astronomical studies in spite of the objections and want of sympathy of his fellow-countrymen. The King of Denmark, however, having a higher opinion of the value of science, promised Tycho the first canonry that should fall vacant in the cathedral chapter of Roskilde, so that he might be assured of an income while devoting himself to financially unproductive work. In 1568 Tycho left Rostock, and matriculated at Basle, but soon moved on to Augsburg, where he found more enthusiasm for astronomy, and induced one of his new friends to order the construction of a large 19-foot quadrant of heavy oak beams. This was the first of the series of great instruments associated with Tycho's name, and it remained in use for five years, being destroyed by a great storm in 1574. Tycho meanwhile had left Augsburg in 1570 and returned to live with his father, now governor of Helsingborg Castle, until the latter's death in the following year. Tycho then joined his mother's brother, Steen Bille, the only one of his relatives who showed any sympathy with his desire for a scientific career.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Tycho Brahe's upbringing, education, early astronomical interests, observations, and the challenges he encountered on his path to becoming a renowned astronomer.","original_text":"Of noble family, born a twin on 14th December, 1546, at Knudstrup in Scania (the southernmost part of Sweden, then forming part of the kingdom of Denmark), Tycho was kidnapped a year later by a childless uncle. This uncle brought him up as his own son, provided him at the age of seven with a tutor, and sent him in 1559 to the University of Copenhagen, to study for a political career by taking courses in rhetoric and philosophy. On 21st August, 1560, however, a solar eclipse took place, total in Portugal, and therefore of small proportions in Denmark, and Tycho's keen interest was awakened, not so much by the phenomenon, as by the fact that it had occurred according to prediction. Soon afterwards he purchased an edition of Ptolemy in order to read up the subject of astronomy, to which, and to mathematics, he devoted most of the remainder of his three years' course at Copenhagen. His uncle next sent him to Leipzig to study law, but he managed to continue his astronomical researches. He obtained the Alphonsine and the new Prutenic Tables, but soon found that the latter, though more accurate than the former, failed to represent the true positions of the planets, and grasped the fact that continuous observation was essential in order to determine the true motions. He began by observing a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in August, 1563, and found the Prutenic Tables several days in error, and the Alphonsine a whole month. He provided himself with a cross-staff for determining the angular distance between stars or other objects, and, finding the divisions of the scale inaccurate, constructed a table of corrections, an improvement that seems to have been a decided innovation, the previous practice having been to use the best available instrument and ignore its errors. About this time war broke out between Denmark and Sweden, and Tycho returned to his uncle, who was vice-admiral and attached to the king's suite. The uncle died in the following month, and early in the next year Tycho went abroad again, this time to Wittenberg. After five months, however, an outbreak of plague drove him away, and he matriculated at Rostock, where he found little astronomy but a good deal of astrology. While there he fought a duel in the dark and lost part of his nose, which he replaced by a composition of gold and silver. He carried on regular observations with his cross-staff and persevered with his astronomical studies in spite of the objections and want of sympathy of his fellow-countrymen. The King of Denmark, however, having a higher opinion of the value of science, promised Tycho the first canonry that should fall vacant in the cathedral chapter of Roskilde, so that he might be assured of an income while devoting himself to financially unproductive work. In 1568 Tycho left Rostock, and matriculated at Basle, but soon moved on to Augsburg, where he found more enthusiasm for astronomy, and induced one of his new friends to order the construction of a large 19-foot quadrant of heavy oak beams. This was the first of the series of great instruments associated with Tycho's name, and it remained in use for five years, being destroyed by a great storm in 1574. Tycho meanwhile had left Augsburg in 1570 and returned to live with his father, now governor of Helsingborg Castle, until the latter's death in the following year. Tycho then joined his mother's brother, Steen Bille, the only one of his relatives who showed any sympathy with his desire for a scientific career.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary encapsulates Tycho Brahe's upbringing, education, early astronomical interests, observations, and support received, portraying his dedication to astronomy despite adversities.","original_text":"Of noble family, born a twin on 14th December, 1546, at Knudstrup in Scania (the southernmost part of Sweden, then forming part of the kingdom of Denmark), Tycho was kidnapped a year later by a childless uncle. This uncle brought him up as his own son, provided him at the age of seven with a tutor, and sent him in 1559 to the University of Copenhagen, to study for a political career by taking courses in rhetoric and philosophy. On 21st August, 1560, however, a solar eclipse took place, total in Portugal, and therefore of small proportions in Denmark, and Tycho's keen interest was awakened, not so much by the phenomenon, as by the fact that it had occurred according to prediction. Soon afterwards he purchased an edition of Ptolemy in order to read up the subject of astronomy, to which, and to mathematics, he devoted most of the remainder of his three years' course at Copenhagen. His uncle next sent him to Leipzig to study law, but he managed to continue his astronomical researches. He obtained the Alphonsine and the new Prutenic Tables, but soon found that the latter, though more accurate than the former, failed to represent the true positions of the planets, and grasped the fact that continuous observation was essential in order to determine the true motions. He began by observing a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in August, 1563, and found the Prutenic Tables several days in error, and the Alphonsine a whole month. He provided himself with a cross-staff for determining the angular distance between stars or other objects, and, finding the divisions of the scale inaccurate, constructed a table of corrections, an improvement that seems to have been a decided innovation, the previous practice having been to use the best available instrument and ignore its errors. About this time war broke out between Denmark and Sweden, and Tycho returned to his uncle, who was vice-admiral and attached to the king's suite. The uncle died in the following month, and early in the next year Tycho went abroad again, this time to Wittenberg. After five months, however, an outbreak of plague drove him away, and he matriculated at Rostock, where he found little astronomy but a good deal of astrology. While there he fought a duel in the dark and lost part of his nose, which he replaced by a composition of gold and silver. He carried on regular observations with his cross-staff and persevered with his astronomical studies in spite of the objections and want of sympathy of his fellow-countrymen. The King of Denmark, however, having a higher opinion of the value of science, promised Tycho the first canonry that should fall vacant in the cathedral chapter of Roskilde, so that he might be assured of an income while devoting himself to financially unproductive work. In 1568 Tycho left Rostock, and matriculated at Basle, but soon moved on to Augsburg, where he found more enthusiasm for astronomy, and induced one of his new friends to order the construction of a large 19-foot quadrant of heavy oak beams. This was the first of the series of great instruments associated with Tycho's name, and it remained in use for five years, being destroyed by a great storm in 1574. Tycho meanwhile had left Augsburg in 1570 and returned to live with his father, now governor of Helsingborg Castle, until the latter's death in the following year. Tycho then joined his mother's brother, Steen Bille, the only one of his relatives who showed any sympathy with his desire for a scientific career.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph provides a detailed account of Tycho Brahe's early life and his journey into the field of astronomy. Born into a noble family in 1546 in Sweden, Tycho's interest in astronomy was sparked by a solar eclipse he witnessed in 1560. Despite initial studies in rhetoric and philosophy, his passion for astronomy led him to delve into the subject, realizing the inaccuracies in existing astronomical tables. Tycho's dedication to continuous observation and his innovative approach to correcting instruments marked his early astronomical pursuits. Despite challenges such as war and personal tragedies, including a duel that resulted in the loss of part of his nose, Tycho's commitment to astronomy remained steadfast. Supported by the King of Denmark, Tycho pursued his astronomical endeavors, eventually leading to the construction of significant astronomical instruments. This paragraph sets the stage for Tycho Brahe's significant contributions to the field of astronomy, highlighting his determination, innovation, and the support he received in his scientific pursuits.","original_text":"Of noble family, born a twin on 14th December, 1546, at Knudstrup in Scania (the southernmost part of Sweden, then forming part of the kingdom of Denmark), Tycho was kidnapped a year later by a childless uncle. This uncle brought him up as his own son, provided him at the age of seven with a tutor, and sent him in 1559 to the University of Copenhagen, to study for a political career by taking courses in rhetoric and philosophy. On 21st August, 1560, however, a solar eclipse took place, total in Portugal, and therefore of small proportions in Denmark, and Tycho's keen interest was awakened, not so much by the phenomenon, as by the fact that it had occurred according to prediction. Soon afterwards he purchased an edition of Ptolemy in order to read up the subject of astronomy, to which, and to mathematics, he devoted most of the remainder of his three years' course at Copenhagen. His uncle next sent him to Leipzig to study law, but he managed to continue his astronomical researches. He obtained the Alphonsine and the new Prutenic Tables, but soon found that the latter, though more accurate than the former, failed to represent the true positions of the planets, and grasped the fact that continuous observation was essential in order to determine the true motions. He began by observing a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in August, 1563, and found the Prutenic Tables several days in error, and the Alphonsine a whole month. He provided himself with a cross-staff for determining the angular distance between stars or other objects, and, finding the divisions of the scale inaccurate, constructed a table of corrections, an improvement that seems to have been a decided innovation, the previous practice having been to use the best available instrument and ignore its errors. About this time war broke out between Denmark and Sweden, and Tycho returned to his uncle, who was vice-admiral and attached to the king's suite. The uncle died in the following month, and early in the next year Tycho went abroad again, this time to Wittenberg. After five months, however, an outbreak of plague drove him away, and he matriculated at Rostock, where he found little astronomy but a good deal of astrology. While there he fought a duel in the dark and lost part of his nose, which he replaced by a composition of gold and silver. He carried on regular observations with his cross-staff and persevered with his astronomical studies in spite of the objections and want of sympathy of his fellow-countrymen. The King of Denmark, however, having a higher opinion of the value of science, promised Tycho the first canonry that should fall vacant in the cathedral chapter of Roskilde, so that he might be assured of an income while devoting himself to financially unproductive work. In 1568 Tycho left Rostock, and matriculated at Basle, but soon moved on to Augsburg, where he found more enthusiasm for astronomy, and induced one of his new friends to order the construction of a large 19-foot quadrant of heavy oak beams. This was the first of the series of great instruments associated with Tycho's name, and it remained in use for five years, being destroyed by a great storm in 1574. Tycho meanwhile had left Augsburg in 1570 and returned to live with his father, now governor of Helsingborg Castle, until the latter's death in the following year. Tycho then joined his mother's brother, Steen Bille, the only one of his relatives who showed any sympathy with his desire for a scientific career.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"On 11th November, 1572, Tycho Brahe observed a bright star in Cassiopeia, which remained visible for over a year. He documented his observations in a book, asserting that the star had minimal parallax, distinguishing it from a comet. Despite his reluctance to publish due to his noble status, Tycho emphasized the importance of precise and numerous observations. The book contained astrological elements, reflecting Tycho's belief in astrology's value for providing warnings rather than deterministic predictions. Tycho's journey to Cassel, interactions with William IV of Hesse, and the establishment of his observatory on the island of Hveen with royal support are highlighted.","original_text":"On 11th November, 1572, Tycho noticed an unfamiliar bright star in the constellation of Cassiopeia, and continued to observe it with a sextant. It was a very brilliant object, equal to Venus at its brightest for the rest of November, not falling below the first magnitude for another four months, and remaining visible for more than a year afterwards. Tycho wrote a little book on the new star, maintaining that it had practically no parallax, and therefore could not be, as some supposed, a comet. Deeming authorship beneath the dignity of a noble he was very reluctant to publish, but he was convinced of the importance of increasing the number and accuracy of observations, though he was by no means free from all the erroneous ideas of his time. The little book contained a certain amount of astrology, but Tycho evidently did not regard this as of very great importance. He adopted the view that the very rarity of the phenomenon of a new star must prevent the formulation and adoption of definite rules for determining its significance. We gather from lectures which he was persuaded to deliver at the University of Copenhagen that, though in agreement with the accepted canons of astrology as to the influence of planetary conjunctions and such phenomena on the course of human events, he did not consider the fate predicted by anyone's horoscope to be unavoidable, but thought the great value of astrology lay in the warnings derived from such computations, which should enable the believer to avoid threatened calamities. In 1575 he left Denmark once more and made his way to Cassel, where he found a kindred spirit in the studious Landgrave, William IV. of Hesse, whose astronomical pursuits had been interrupted by his accession to the government of Hesse, in 1567. Tycho observed with him for some time, the two forming a firm friendship, and then visited successively Frankfort, Basle, and Venice, returning by way of Augsburg, Ratisbon, and Saalfeld to Wittenberg; on the way he acquired various astronomical manuscripts, made friends among practical astronomers, and examined new instruments. He seemed to have considered the advantages of the several places thus visited and decided on Basle, but on his return to Denmark to fetch his family with the object of transferring them to Basle, he found that his friend the Landgrave had written to King Frederick on his behalf, urging him to provide the means to enable Tycho to pursue his astronomical work, promising that not only should credit result for the king and for Denmark but that science itself would be greatly advanced. The ultimate result of this letter was that after refusing various offers, Tycho accepted from the king a grant of the small island of Hveen, in the Sound, with a guaranteed income, in addition to a large sum from the treasury for building an observatory on the island, far removed from the distractions of court life. Here Tycho built his celebrated observatory of Uraniborg and began observations in December, 1576, using the large instruments then found necessary in order to attain the accuracy of observation which within the next half-century was to be so greatly facilitated by the invention of the telescope. Here also he built several smaller observing rooms, so that his pupils should be able to observe independently. For more than twenty years he continued his observations at Uraniborg, surrounded by his family, and attracting numerous pupils. His constant aim was to accumulate a large store of observations of a high order of accuracy, and thus to provide data for the complete reform of astronomy. As we have seen, few of the Danish nobles had any sympathy with Tycho's pursuits, and most of them strongly resented the continual expense borne by the King's treasury. Tycho moreover was so absorbed in his scientific pursuits that he would not take the trouble to be a good landlord, nor to carry out all the duties laid upon him in return for certain of his grants of income. His buildings included a chemical laboratory, and he was in the habit of making up elixirs for various medical purposes; these were quite popular, particularly as he made no charge for them. He seems to have been something of a homoeopathist, for he recommends sulphur to cure infectious diseases \"brought on by the sulphurous vapours of the Aurora Borealis\"!","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"On 11th November, 1572, Tycho Brahe observed a bright star in Cassiopeia, maintaining that it was not a comet due to its lack of parallax. Reluctant to publish due to his noble status, Tycho emphasized the importance of accurate observations despite some astrological content in his writings. He believed that the rarity of such phenomena hindered the establishment of definitive rules. Tycho's lectures at the University of Copenhagen revealed his belief in astrology's value for providing warnings rather than predicting fate. He left Denmark in 1575, collaborated with William IV of Hesse, and eventually settled on the island of Hveen, where he built Uraniborg observatory and dedicated over two decades to meticulous astronomical observations.","original_text":"On 11th November, 1572, Tycho noticed an unfamiliar bright star in the constellation of Cassiopeia, and continued to observe it with a sextant. It was a very brilliant object, equal to Venus at its brightest for the rest of November, not falling below the first magnitude for another four months, and remaining visible for more than a year afterwards. Tycho wrote a little book on the new star, maintaining that it had practically no parallax, and therefore could not be, as some supposed, a comet. Deeming authorship beneath the dignity of a noble he was very reluctant to publish, but he was convinced of the importance of increasing the number and accuracy of observations, though he was by no means free from all the erroneous ideas of his time. The little book contained a certain amount of astrology, but Tycho evidently did not regard this as of very great importance. He adopted the view that the very rarity of the phenomenon of a new star must prevent the formulation and adoption of definite rules for determining its significance. We gather from lectures which he was persuaded to deliver at the University of Copenhagen that, though in agreement with the accepted canons of astrology as to the influence of planetary conjunctions and such phenomena on the course of human events, he did not consider the fate predicted by anyone's horoscope to be unavoidable, but thought the great value of astrology lay in the warnings derived from such computations, which should enable the believer to avoid threatened calamities. In 1575 he left Denmark once more and made his way to Cassel, where he found a kindred spirit in the studious Landgrave, William IV. of Hesse, whose astronomical pursuits had been interrupted by his accession to the government of Hesse, in 1567. Tycho observed with him for some time, the two forming a firm friendship, and then visited successively Frankfort, Basle, and Venice, returning by way of Augsburg, Ratisbon, and Saalfeld to Wittenberg; on the way he acquired various astronomical manuscripts, made friends among practical astronomers, and examined new instruments. He seemed to have considered the advantages of the several places thus visited and decided on Basle, but on his return to Denmark to fetch his family with the object of transferring them to Basle, he found that his friend the Landgrave had written to King Frederick on his behalf, urging him to provide the means to enable Tycho to pursue his astronomical work, promising that not only should credit result for the king and for Denmark but that science itself would be greatly advanced. The ultimate result of this letter was that after refusing various offers, Tycho accepted from the king a grant of the small island of Hveen, in the Sound, with a guaranteed income, in addition to a large sum from the treasury for building an observatory on the island, far removed from the distractions of court life. Here Tycho built his celebrated observatory of Uraniborg and began observations in December, 1576, using the large instruments then found necessary in order to attain the accuracy of observation which within the next half-century was to be so greatly facilitated by the invention of the telescope. Here also he built several smaller observing rooms, so that his pupils should be able to observe independently. For more than twenty years he continued his observations at Uraniborg, surrounded by his family, and attracting numerous pupils. His constant aim was to accumulate a large store of observations of a high order of accuracy, and thus to provide data for the complete reform of astronomy. As we have seen, few of the Danish nobles had any sympathy with Tycho's pursuits, and most of them strongly resented the continual expense borne by the King's treasury. Tycho moreover was so absorbed in his scientific pursuits that he would not take the trouble to be a good landlord, nor to carry out all the duties laid upon him in return for certain of his grants of income. His buildings included a chemical laboratory, and he was in the habit of making up elixirs for various medical purposes; these were quite popular, particularly as he made no charge for them. He seems to have been something of a homoeopathist, for he recommends sulphur to cure infectious diseases \"brought on by the sulphurous vapours of the Aurora Borealis\"!","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Tycho Brahe's observation of a new star, his noble background, reluctance to publish, emphasis on accurate observations, views on astrology, collaborations, and the establishment of the Uraniborg observatory.","original_text":"On 11th November, 1572, Tycho noticed an unfamiliar bright star in the constellation of Cassiopeia, and continued to observe it with a sextant. It was a very brilliant object, equal to Venus at its brightest for the rest of November, not falling below the first magnitude for another four months, and remaining visible for more than a year afterwards. Tycho wrote a little book on the new star, maintaining that it had practically no parallax, and therefore could not be, as some supposed, a comet. Deeming authorship beneath the dignity of a noble he was very reluctant to publish, but he was convinced of the importance of increasing the number and accuracy of observations, though he was by no means free from all the erroneous ideas of his time. The little book contained a certain amount of astrology, but Tycho evidently did not regard this as of very great importance. He adopted the view that the very rarity of the phenomenon of a new star must prevent the formulation and adoption of definite rules for determining its significance. We gather from lectures which he was persuaded to deliver at the University of Copenhagen that, though in agreement with the accepted canons of astrology as to the influence of planetary conjunctions and such phenomena on the course of human events, he did not consider the fate predicted by anyone's horoscope to be unavoidable, but thought the great value of astrology lay in the warnings derived from such computations, which should enable the believer to avoid threatened calamities. In 1575 he left Denmark once more and made his way to Cassel, where he found a kindred spirit in the studious Landgrave, William IV. of Hesse, whose astronomical pursuits had been interrupted by his accession to the government of Hesse, in 1567. Tycho observed with him for some time, the two forming a firm friendship, and then visited successively Frankfort, Basle, and Venice, returning by way of Augsburg, Ratisbon, and Saalfeld to Wittenberg; on the way he acquired various astronomical manuscripts, made friends among practical astronomers, and examined new instruments. He seemed to have considered the advantages of the several places thus visited and decided on Basle, but on his return to Denmark to fetch his family with the object of transferring them to Basle, he found that his friend the Landgrave had written to King Frederick on his behalf, urging him to provide the means to enable Tycho to pursue his astronomical work, promising that not only should credit result for the king and for Denmark but that science itself would be greatly advanced. The ultimate result of this letter was that after refusing various offers, Tycho accepted from the king a grant of the small island of Hveen, in the Sound, with a guaranteed income, in addition to a large sum from the treasury for building an observatory on the island, far removed from the distractions of court life. Here Tycho built his celebrated observatory of Uraniborg and began observations in December, 1576, using the large instruments then found necessary in order to attain the accuracy of observation which within the next half-century was to be so greatly facilitated by the invention of the telescope. Here also he built several smaller observing rooms, so that his pupils should be able to observe independently. For more than twenty years he continued his observations at Uraniborg, surrounded by his family, and attracting numerous pupils. His constant aim was to accumulate a large store of observations of a high order of accuracy, and thus to provide data for the complete reform of astronomy. As we have seen, few of the Danish nobles had any sympathy with Tycho's pursuits, and most of them strongly resented the continual expense borne by the King's treasury. Tycho moreover was so absorbed in his scientific pursuits that he would not take the trouble to be a good landlord, nor to carry out all the duties laid upon him in return for certain of his grants of income. His buildings included a chemical laboratory, and he was in the habit of making up elixirs for various medical purposes; these were quite popular, particularly as he made no charge for them. He seems to have been something of a homoeopathist, for he recommends sulphur to cure infectious diseases \"brought on by the sulphurous vapours of the Aurora Borealis\"!","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In the text from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" specifically in Chapter III, it discusses Tycho Brahe's observation of a new star in the constellation of Cassiopeia on November 11, 1572. Tycho meticulously observed this bright star with a sextant, noting its brilliance equal to Venus and its visibility for over a year. Despite his reluctance to publish due to his noble status, Tycho recognized the significance of increasing observational accuracy. The text highlights Tycho's views on astrology, emphasizing the rarity of the new star phenomenon and the value of astrology in providing warnings rather than predicting fate. It also touches on Tycho's travels to Cassel, his friendship with Landgrave William IV of Hesse, and his establishment of the Uraniborg observatory on the island of Hveen. Tycho's dedication to accumulating precise observations for the advancement of astronomy is underscored, alongside his unconventional practices as a landlord and his interest in alchemy for medical purposes, showcasing his multifaceted interests and contributions to science during this period.","original_text":"On 11th November, 1572, Tycho noticed an unfamiliar bright star in the constellation of Cassiopeia, and continued to observe it with a sextant. It was a very brilliant object, equal to Venus at its brightest for the rest of November, not falling below the first magnitude for another four months, and remaining visible for more than a year afterwards. Tycho wrote a little book on the new star, maintaining that it had practically no parallax, and therefore could not be, as some supposed, a comet. Deeming authorship beneath the dignity of a noble he was very reluctant to publish, but he was convinced of the importance of increasing the number and accuracy of observations, though he was by no means free from all the erroneous ideas of his time. The little book contained a certain amount of astrology, but Tycho evidently did not regard this as of very great importance. He adopted the view that the very rarity of the phenomenon of a new star must prevent the formulation and adoption of definite rules for determining its significance. We gather from lectures which he was persuaded to deliver at the University of Copenhagen that, though in agreement with the accepted canons of astrology as to the influence of planetary conjunctions and such phenomena on the course of human events, he did not consider the fate predicted by anyone's horoscope to be unavoidable, but thought the great value of astrology lay in the warnings derived from such computations, which should enable the believer to avoid threatened calamities. In 1575 he left Denmark once more and made his way to Cassel, where he found a kindred spirit in the studious Landgrave, William IV. of Hesse, whose astronomical pursuits had been interrupted by his accession to the government of Hesse, in 1567. Tycho observed with him for some time, the two forming a firm friendship, and then visited successively Frankfort, Basle, and Venice, returning by way of Augsburg, Ratisbon, and Saalfeld to Wittenberg; on the way he acquired various astronomical manuscripts, made friends among practical astronomers, and examined new instruments. He seemed to have considered the advantages of the several places thus visited and decided on Basle, but on his return to Denmark to fetch his family with the object of transferring them to Basle, he found that his friend the Landgrave had written to King Frederick on his behalf, urging him to provide the means to enable Tycho to pursue his astronomical work, promising that not only should credit result for the king and for Denmark but that science itself would be greatly advanced. The ultimate result of this letter was that after refusing various offers, Tycho accepted from the king a grant of the small island of Hveen, in the Sound, with a guaranteed income, in addition to a large sum from the treasury for building an observatory on the island, far removed from the distractions of court life. Here Tycho built his celebrated observatory of Uraniborg and began observations in December, 1576, using the large instruments then found necessary in order to attain the accuracy of observation which within the next half-century was to be so greatly facilitated by the invention of the telescope. Here also he built several smaller observing rooms, so that his pupils should be able to observe independently. For more than twenty years he continued his observations at Uraniborg, surrounded by his family, and attracting numerous pupils. His constant aim was to accumulate a large store of observations of a high order of accuracy, and thus to provide data for the complete reform of astronomy. As we have seen, few of the Danish nobles had any sympathy with Tycho's pursuits, and most of them strongly resented the continual expense borne by the King's treasury. Tycho moreover was so absorbed in his scientific pursuits that he would not take the trouble to be a good landlord, nor to carry out all the duties laid upon him in return for certain of his grants of income. His buildings included a chemical laboratory, and he was in the habit of making up elixirs for various medical purposes; these were quite popular, particularly as he made no charge for them. He seems to have been something of a homoeopathist, for he recommends sulphur to cure infectious diseases \"brought on by the sulphurous vapours of the Aurora Borealis\"!","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Tycho Brahe, a nobleman born in 1546, was kidnapped by his uncle and raised as his own. Despite being intended for a political career, Tycho's interest in astronomy was sparked by a solar eclipse. He delved into astronomy and mathematics, realizing the importance of continuous observation for accurate planetary positions. Tycho's astronomical pursuits led him to various cities, where he made significant observations and built instruments. His observations of a new star and comets challenged common beliefs and contributed to his great work on astronomy. Tycho's rejection of the Copernican system in favor of a geocentric model, intertwined with astrological predictions, showcased his unique approach to science.","original_text":"King Frederick, in consideration of various grants to Tycho, relied upon his assistance in scientific matters, and especially in astrological calculations; such as the horoscope of the heir apparent, Prince Christian, born in 1577, which has been preserved among Tycho's writings. There is, however, no known copy in existence of any of the series of annual almanacs with predictions which he prepared for the King. In November, 1577, appeared a bright comet, which Tycho carefully observed with his sextant, proving that it had no perceptible parallax, and must therefore be further off than the moon. He thus definitely overthrew the common belief in the atmospheric origin of comets, which he had himself hitherto shared. With increasing accuracy he observed several other comets, notably one in 1585, when he had a full equipment of instruments and a large staff of assistants. The year 1588, which saw the death of his royal benefactor, saw also the publication of a volume of Tycho's great work \"Introduction to the New Astronomy\". The first volume, devoted to the new star of 1572, was not ready, because the reduction of the observations involved so much research to correct the star places for refraction, precession, etc.; it was not completed in fact until Tycho's death, but the second volume, dealing with the comet of 1577, was printed at Uraniborg and some copies were issued in 1588. Besides the comet observations it included an account of Tycho's system of the world. He would not accept the Copernican system, as he considered the earth too heavy and sluggish to move, and also that the authority of Scripture was against such an hypothesis. He therefore assumed that the other planets revolved about the sun, while the sun, moon, and stars revolved about the earth as a centre. Geometrically this is much the same as the Copernican system, but physically it involves the grotesque demand that the whole system of stars revolves round our insignificant little earth every twenty-four hours. Since his previous small book on the comet, Tycho had evidently considered more fully its possible astrological significance, for he foretold a religious war, giving the date of its commencement, and also the rising of a great Protestant champion. These predictions were apparently fulfilled almost to the letter by the great religious wars that broke out towards the end of the sixteenth century, and in the person of Gustavus Adolphus.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Tycho Brahe, a nobleman born in 1546, made pivotal contributions to astronomy through precise observations and instrument enhancements. King Frederick valued Tycho's astrological skills, as seen in his analysis of Prince Christian's horoscope. Tycho's comet observations, notably in 1577, challenged existing beliefs and led to the publication of his influential work 'Introduction to the New Astronomy' in 1588. Despite rejecting the Copernican system, Tycho proposed a distinctive model where planets orbited the sun while the sun, moon, and stars circled the Earth.","original_text":"King Frederick, in consideration of various grants to Tycho, relied upon his assistance in scientific matters, and especially in astrological calculations; such as the horoscope of the heir apparent, Prince Christian, born in 1577, which has been preserved among Tycho's writings. There is, however, no known copy in existence of any of the series of annual almanacs with predictions which he prepared for the King. In November, 1577, appeared a bright comet, which Tycho carefully observed with his sextant, proving that it had no perceptible parallax, and must therefore be further off than the moon. He thus definitely overthrew the common belief in the atmospheric origin of comets, which he had himself hitherto shared. With increasing accuracy he observed several other comets, notably one in 1585, when he had a full equipment of instruments and a large staff of assistants. The year 1588, which saw the death of his royal benefactor, saw also the publication of a volume of Tycho's great work \"Introduction to the New Astronomy\". The first volume, devoted to the new star of 1572, was not ready, because the reduction of the observations involved so much research to correct the star places for refraction, precession, etc.; it was not completed in fact until Tycho's death, but the second volume, dealing with the comet of 1577, was printed at Uraniborg and some copies were issued in 1588. Besides the comet observations it included an account of Tycho's system of the world. He would not accept the Copernican system, as he considered the earth too heavy and sluggish to move, and also that the authority of Scripture was against such an hypothesis. He therefore assumed that the other planets revolved about the sun, while the sun, moon, and stars revolved about the earth as a centre. Geometrically this is much the same as the Copernican system, but physically it involves the grotesque demand that the whole system of stars revolves round our insignificant little earth every twenty-four hours. Since his previous small book on the comet, Tycho had evidently considered more fully its possible astrological significance, for he foretold a religious war, giving the date of its commencement, and also the rising of a great Protestant champion. These predictions were apparently fulfilled almost to the letter by the great religious wars that broke out towards the end of the sixteenth century, and in the person of Gustavus Adolphus.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Tycho Brahe, a significant figure in astronomy, received various grants from King Frederick, who valued Tycho's assistance in scientific and astrological matters. Tycho's observations of a comet in 1577, which he proved to be further away than the moon, challenged the prevailing belief about comets' origins. He meticulously observed comets, notably one in 1585, with advanced instruments and a dedicated team. In 1588, Tycho published a volume of his work 'Introduction to the New Astronomy,' where he presented his system of the world. Unlike the Copernican model, Tycho's system proposed that planets orbited the sun while the sun, moon, and stars circled the Earth. He also made astrological predictions, foreseeing religious conflicts and the rise of a Protestant leader, which were remarkably accurate.","original_text":"King Frederick, in consideration of various grants to Tycho, relied upon his assistance in scientific matters, and especially in astrological calculations; such as the horoscope of the heir apparent, Prince Christian, born in 1577, which has been preserved among Tycho's writings. There is, however, no known copy in existence of any of the series of annual almanacs with predictions which he prepared for the King. In November, 1577, appeared a bright comet, which Tycho carefully observed with his sextant, proving that it had no perceptible parallax, and must therefore be further off than the moon. He thus definitely overthrew the common belief in the atmospheric origin of comets, which he had himself hitherto shared. With increasing accuracy he observed several other comets, notably one in 1585, when he had a full equipment of instruments and a large staff of assistants. The year 1588, which saw the death of his royal benefactor, saw also the publication of a volume of Tycho's great work \"Introduction to the New Astronomy\". The first volume, devoted to the new star of 1572, was not ready, because the reduction of the observations involved so much research to correct the star places for refraction, precession, etc.; it was not completed in fact until Tycho's death, but the second volume, dealing with the comet of 1577, was printed at Uraniborg and some copies were issued in 1588. Besides the comet observations it included an account of Tycho's system of the world. He would not accept the Copernican system, as he considered the earth too heavy and sluggish to move, and also that the authority of Scripture was against such an hypothesis. He therefore assumed that the other planets revolved about the sun, while the sun, moon, and stars revolved about the earth as a centre. Geometrically this is much the same as the Copernican system, but physically it involves the grotesque demand that the whole system of stars revolves round our insignificant little earth every twenty-four hours. Since his previous small book on the comet, Tycho had evidently considered more fully its possible astrological significance, for he foretold a religious war, giving the date of its commencement, and also the rising of a great Protestant champion. These predictions were apparently fulfilled almost to the letter by the great religious wars that broke out towards the end of the sixteenth century, and in the person of Gustavus Adolphus.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In the provided text from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" the focus is on King Frederick's reliance on Tycho Brahe for scientific and astrological calculations. King Frederick entrusted Tycho with astrological tasks, including preparing the horoscope for Prince Christian, born in 1577. Tycho's meticulous observations of a comet in 1577, disproving the common belief in their atmospheric origin, are highlighted. Tycho's detailed comet observations in 1585, with advanced instruments and a team of assistants, are also mentioned. The text discusses the publication of Tycho's significant work \"Introduction to the New Astronomy\" in 1588, focusing on his rejection of the Copernican system in favor of a unique planetary model. Tycho's astrological predictions related to religious wars and the rise of a Protestant leader, which were seemingly fulfilled by the religious conflicts of the late sixteenth century, are emphasized.","original_text":"King Frederick, in consideration of various grants to Tycho, relied upon his assistance in scientific matters, and especially in astrological calculations; such as the horoscope of the heir apparent, Prince Christian, born in 1577, which has been preserved among Tycho's writings. There is, however, no known copy in existence of any of the series of annual almanacs with predictions which he prepared for the King. In November, 1577, appeared a bright comet, which Tycho carefully observed with his sextant, proving that it had no perceptible parallax, and must therefore be further off than the moon. He thus definitely overthrew the common belief in the atmospheric origin of comets, which he had himself hitherto shared. With increasing accuracy he observed several other comets, notably one in 1585, when he had a full equipment of instruments and a large staff of assistants. The year 1588, which saw the death of his royal benefactor, saw also the publication of a volume of Tycho's great work \"Introduction to the New Astronomy\". The first volume, devoted to the new star of 1572, was not ready, because the reduction of the observations involved so much research to correct the star places for refraction, precession, etc.; it was not completed in fact until Tycho's death, but the second volume, dealing with the comet of 1577, was printed at Uraniborg and some copies were issued in 1588. Besides the comet observations it included an account of Tycho's system of the world. He would not accept the Copernican system, as he considered the earth too heavy and sluggish to move, and also that the authority of Scripture was against such an hypothesis. He therefore assumed that the other planets revolved about the sun, while the sun, moon, and stars revolved about the earth as a centre. Geometrically this is much the same as the Copernican system, but physically it involves the grotesque demand that the whole system of stars revolves round our insignificant little earth every twenty-four hours. Since his previous small book on the comet, Tycho had evidently considered more fully its possible astrological significance, for he foretold a religious war, giving the date of its commencement, and also the rising of a great Protestant champion. These predictions were apparently fulfilled almost to the letter by the great religious wars that broke out towards the end of the sixteenth century, and in the person of Gustavus Adolphus.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Tycho Brahe's financial struggles after King Frederick's death, his search for a new patron, and his collaboration with Kepler amidst challenges in obtaining promised funds.","original_text":"King Frederick's death did not at first affect Tycho's position, for the new king, Christian, was only eleven years old, and for some years the council of regents included two of his supporters. After their deaths, however, his emoluments began to be cut down on the plea of economy, and as he took very little trouble to carry out any other than scientific duties it was easy enough for his enemies to find fault. One after another source of income was cut off, but he persevered with his scientific work, including a catalogue of stars. He had obtained plenty of good observations of 777 stars, but thought his catalogue should contain 1000 stars, so he hastily observed as many more as he could up to the time of his leaving Hveen, though even then he had not completed his programme. About the time that King Christian reached the age of eighteen, Tycho began to look about for a new patron, and to consider the prospects offered by transferring himself with his instruments and activities to the patronage of the Emperor Rudolph II. In 1597, when even his pension from the Royal treasury was cut off, he hurriedly packed up his instruments and library, and after a few weeks' sojourn at Copenhagen, proceeded to Rostock, in Mecklenburg, whence he sent an appeal to King Christian. It is possible that had he done this before leaving Hveen it might have had more effect, but it can be readily seen from the tone of the king's unfavourable reply that his departure was regarded as an aggravation of previous shortcomings. Driven from Rostock by the plague, Tycho settled temporarily at Wandsbeck, in Holstein, but towards the end of 1598 set out to meet the Emperor at Prague. Once more plague intervened and he spent some time at Dresden, afterwards going to Wittenberg for the winter. He ultimately reached Prague in June, 1599. Rudolph granted him a salary of at least 3000 florins, promising also to settle on him the first hereditary estate that should lapse to the Crown. He offered, moreover, the choice between three castles outside Prague, of which Tycho chose Benatek. There he set about altering the buildings in readiness for his instruments, for which he sent to Uraniborg. Before they reached him, after many vexatious delays, he had given up waiting for the funds promised for his building expenses, and removed from Benatek to Prague. It was during this interval that after considerable negotiation, Kepler, who had been in correspondence with Tycho, consented to join him as an assistant. Another assistant, Longomontanus, who had been with Tycho at Uraniborg, was finding difficulty with the long series of Mars observations, and it was arranged that he should transfer his energies to the lunar observations, leaving those of Mars for Kepler. Before very much could be done with them, however, Tycho died at the end of October, 1601. He may have regretted the peaceful island of Hveen, considering the troubles in which Bohemia was rapidly becoming involved, but there is little doubt that had it not been for his self-imposed exile, his observations would not have come into Kepler's hands, and their great value might have been lost. In any case it was at Uraniborg that the mass of observations was produced upon which the fame of Tycho Brahe rests. His own discoveries, though in themselves the most important made in astronomy for many centuries, are far less valuable than those for which his observations furnished the material. He discovered the third and fourth inequalities of the moon in longitude, called respectively the variation and the annual equation, also the variability of the motion of the moon's nodes and the inclination of its orbit to the ecliptic. He obtained an improved value of the constant of precession, and did good service by rejecting the idea that it was variable, an idea which, under the name of trepidation, had for many centuries been accepted. He discovered the effect of refraction, though only approximately its amount, and determined improved values of many other astronomical constants, but singularly enough made no determination of the distance of the sun, adopting instead the ancient and erroneous value given by Hipparchus.\nHis magnificent Observatory of Uraniborg, the finest building for astronomical purposes that the world had hitherto seen, was allowed to fall into decay, and scarcely more than mere indications of the site may now be seen.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary encapsulates Tycho Brahe's post-King Frederick era, detailing his financial struggles, scientific endeavors, search for patronage, and collaboration with Kepler, providing a comprehensive overview of this significant period in Tycho's life.","original_text":"King Frederick's death did not at first affect Tycho's position, for the new king, Christian, was only eleven years old, and for some years the council of regents included two of his supporters. After their deaths, however, his emoluments began to be cut down on the plea of economy, and as he took very little trouble to carry out any other than scientific duties it was easy enough for his enemies to find fault. One after another source of income was cut off, but he persevered with his scientific work, including a catalogue of stars. He had obtained plenty of good observations of 777 stars, but thought his catalogue should contain 1000 stars, so he hastily observed as many more as he could up to the time of his leaving Hveen, though even then he had not completed his programme. About the time that King Christian reached the age of eighteen, Tycho began to look about for a new patron, and to consider the prospects offered by transferring himself with his instruments and activities to the patronage of the Emperor Rudolph II. In 1597, when even his pension from the Royal treasury was cut off, he hurriedly packed up his instruments and library, and after a few weeks' sojourn at Copenhagen, proceeded to Rostock, in Mecklenburg, whence he sent an appeal to King Christian. It is possible that had he done this before leaving Hveen it might have had more effect, but it can be readily seen from the tone of the king's unfavourable reply that his departure was regarded as an aggravation of previous shortcomings. Driven from Rostock by the plague, Tycho settled temporarily at Wandsbeck, in Holstein, but towards the end of 1598 set out to meet the Emperor at Prague. Once more plague intervened and he spent some time at Dresden, afterwards going to Wittenberg for the winter. He ultimately reached Prague in June, 1599. Rudolph granted him a salary of at least 3000 florins, promising also to settle on him the first hereditary estate that should lapse to the Crown. He offered, moreover, the choice between three castles outside Prague, of which Tycho chose Benatek. There he set about altering the buildings in readiness for his instruments, for which he sent to Uraniborg. Before they reached him, after many vexatious delays, he had given up waiting for the funds promised for his building expenses, and removed from Benatek to Prague. It was during this interval that after considerable negotiation, Kepler, who had been in correspondence with Tycho, consented to join him as an assistant. Another assistant, Longomontanus, who had been with Tycho at Uraniborg, was finding difficulty with the long series of Mars observations, and it was arranged that he should transfer his energies to the lunar observations, leaving those of Mars for Kepler. Before very much could be done with them, however, Tycho died at the end of October, 1601. He may have regretted the peaceful island of Hveen, considering the troubles in which Bohemia was rapidly becoming involved, but there is little doubt that had it not been for his self-imposed exile, his observations would not have come into Kepler's hands, and their great value might have been lost. In any case it was at Uraniborg that the mass of observations was produced upon which the fame of Tycho Brahe rests. His own discoveries, though in themselves the most important made in astronomy for many centuries, are far less valuable than those for which his observations furnished the material. He discovered the third and fourth inequalities of the moon in longitude, called respectively the variation and the annual equation, also the variability of the motion of the moon's nodes and the inclination of its orbit to the ecliptic. He obtained an improved value of the constant of precession, and did good service by rejecting the idea that it was variable, an idea which, under the name of trepidation, had for many centuries been accepted. He discovered the effect of refraction, though only approximately its amount, and determined improved values of many other astronomical constants, but singularly enough made no determination of the distance of the sun, adopting instead the ancient and erroneous value given by Hipparchus.\nHis magnificent Observatory of Uraniborg, the finest building for astronomical purposes that the world had hitherto seen, was allowed to fall into decay, and scarcely more than mere indications of the site may now be seen.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed account of Tycho Brahe's challenges following King Frederick's death, his search for a new patron, collaboration with Kepler, and his significant astronomical contributions.","original_text":"King Frederick's death did not at first affect Tycho's position, for the new king, Christian, was only eleven years old, and for some years the council of regents included two of his supporters. After their deaths, however, his emoluments began to be cut down on the plea of economy, and as he took very little trouble to carry out any other than scientific duties it was easy enough for his enemies to find fault. One after another source of income was cut off, but he persevered with his scientific work, including a catalogue of stars. He had obtained plenty of good observations of 777 stars, but thought his catalogue should contain 1000 stars, so he hastily observed as many more as he could up to the time of his leaving Hveen, though even then he had not completed his programme. About the time that King Christian reached the age of eighteen, Tycho began to look about for a new patron, and to consider the prospects offered by transferring himself with his instruments and activities to the patronage of the Emperor Rudolph II. In 1597, when even his pension from the Royal treasury was cut off, he hurriedly packed up his instruments and library, and after a few weeks' sojourn at Copenhagen, proceeded to Rostock, in Mecklenburg, whence he sent an appeal to King Christian. It is possible that had he done this before leaving Hveen it might have had more effect, but it can be readily seen from the tone of the king's unfavourable reply that his departure was regarded as an aggravation of previous shortcomings. Driven from Rostock by the plague, Tycho settled temporarily at Wandsbeck, in Holstein, but towards the end of 1598 set out to meet the Emperor at Prague. Once more plague intervened and he spent some time at Dresden, afterwards going to Wittenberg for the winter. He ultimately reached Prague in June, 1599. Rudolph granted him a salary of at least 3000 florins, promising also to settle on him the first hereditary estate that should lapse to the Crown. He offered, moreover, the choice between three castles outside Prague, of which Tycho chose Benatek. There he set about altering the buildings in readiness for his instruments, for which he sent to Uraniborg. Before they reached him, after many vexatious delays, he had given up waiting for the funds promised for his building expenses, and removed from Benatek to Prague. It was during this interval that after considerable negotiation, Kepler, who had been in correspondence with Tycho, consented to join him as an assistant. Another assistant, Longomontanus, who had been with Tycho at Uraniborg, was finding difficulty with the long series of Mars observations, and it was arranged that he should transfer his energies to the lunar observations, leaving those of Mars for Kepler. Before very much could be done with them, however, Tycho died at the end of October, 1601. He may have regretted the peaceful island of Hveen, considering the troubles in which Bohemia was rapidly becoming involved, but there is little doubt that had it not been for his self-imposed exile, his observations would not have come into Kepler's hands, and their great value might have been lost. In any case it was at Uraniborg that the mass of observations was produced upon which the fame of Tycho Brahe rests. His own discoveries, though in themselves the most important made in astronomy for many centuries, are far less valuable than those for which his observations furnished the material. He discovered the third and fourth inequalities of the moon in longitude, called respectively the variation and the annual equation, also the variability of the motion of the moon's nodes and the inclination of its orbit to the ecliptic. He obtained an improved value of the constant of precession, and did good service by rejecting the idea that it was variable, an idea which, under the name of trepidation, had for many centuries been accepted. He discovered the effect of refraction, though only approximately its amount, and determined improved values of many other astronomical constants, but singularly enough made no determination of the distance of the sun, adopting instead the ancient and erroneous value given by Hipparchus.\nHis magnificent Observatory of Uraniborg, the finest building for astronomical purposes that the world had hitherto seen, was allowed to fall into decay, and scarcely more than mere indications of the site may now be seen.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the challenges faced by Tycho Brahe after the death of King Frederick, as his emoluments were gradually reduced due to economic reasons, leading to a decline in his financial support. Despite this, Tycho persisted in his scientific endeavors, particularly in compiling a star catalog. He aimed to expand his catalog from 777 to 1000 stars, hastily observing more stars before leaving Hveen. As King Christian came of age, Tycho sought a new patron, eventually considering Emperor Rudolph II. Facing financial setbacks, including the termination of his pension, Tycho relocated to Prague with Rudolph's support. The narrative details Tycho's efforts to secure funding for his astronomical work, his move to Benatek, and later to Prague. It highlights his collaboration with Kepler and Longomontanus, focusing on their astronomical observations. The paragraph concludes with Tycho's passing in 1601, reflecting on his legacy of groundbreaking astronomical discoveries and the importance of his meticulous observations, emphasizing the significance of his work conducted at Uraniborg.","original_text":"King Frederick's death did not at first affect Tycho's position, for the new king, Christian, was only eleven years old, and for some years the council of regents included two of his supporters. After their deaths, however, his emoluments began to be cut down on the plea of economy, and as he took very little trouble to carry out any other than scientific duties it was easy enough for his enemies to find fault. One after another source of income was cut off, but he persevered with his scientific work, including a catalogue of stars. He had obtained plenty of good observations of 777 stars, but thought his catalogue should contain 1000 stars, so he hastily observed as many more as he could up to the time of his leaving Hveen, though even then he had not completed his programme. About the time that King Christian reached the age of eighteen, Tycho began to look about for a new patron, and to consider the prospects offered by transferring himself with his instruments and activities to the patronage of the Emperor Rudolph II. In 1597, when even his pension from the Royal treasury was cut off, he hurriedly packed up his instruments and library, and after a few weeks' sojourn at Copenhagen, proceeded to Rostock, in Mecklenburg, whence he sent an appeal to King Christian. It is possible that had he done this before leaving Hveen it might have had more effect, but it can be readily seen from the tone of the king's unfavourable reply that his departure was regarded as an aggravation of previous shortcomings. Driven from Rostock by the plague, Tycho settled temporarily at Wandsbeck, in Holstein, but towards the end of 1598 set out to meet the Emperor at Prague. Once more plague intervened and he spent some time at Dresden, afterwards going to Wittenberg for the winter. He ultimately reached Prague in June, 1599. Rudolph granted him a salary of at least 3000 florins, promising also to settle on him the first hereditary estate that should lapse to the Crown. He offered, moreover, the choice between three castles outside Prague, of which Tycho chose Benatek. There he set about altering the buildings in readiness for his instruments, for which he sent to Uraniborg. Before they reached him, after many vexatious delays, he had given up waiting for the funds promised for his building expenses, and removed from Benatek to Prague. It was during this interval that after considerable negotiation, Kepler, who had been in correspondence with Tycho, consented to join him as an assistant. Another assistant, Longomontanus, who had been with Tycho at Uraniborg, was finding difficulty with the long series of Mars observations, and it was arranged that he should transfer his energies to the lunar observations, leaving those of Mars for Kepler. Before very much could be done with them, however, Tycho died at the end of October, 1601. He may have regretted the peaceful island of Hveen, considering the troubles in which Bohemia was rapidly becoming involved, but there is little doubt that had it not been for his self-imposed exile, his observations would not have come into Kepler's hands, and their great value might have been lost. In any case it was at Uraniborg that the mass of observations was produced upon which the fame of Tycho Brahe rests. His own discoveries, though in themselves the most important made in astronomy for many centuries, are far less valuable than those for which his observations furnished the material. He discovered the third and fourth inequalities of the moon in longitude, called respectively the variation and the annual equation, also the variability of the motion of the moon's nodes and the inclination of its orbit to the ecliptic. He obtained an improved value of the constant of precession, and did good service by rejecting the idea that it was variable, an idea which, under the name of trepidation, had for many centuries been accepted. He discovered the effect of refraction, though only approximately its amount, and determined improved values of many other astronomical constants, but singularly enough made no determination of the distance of the sun, adopting instead the ancient and erroneous value given by Hipparchus.\nHis magnificent Observatory of Uraniborg, the finest building for astronomical purposes that the world had hitherto seen, was allowed to fall into decay, and scarcely more than mere indications of the site may now be seen.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Chapter III of Walter W. Bryant's book \"Kepler\" delves into the life and contributions of Tycho Brahe, a pivotal figure in the transition from the geometrical period of astronomy to a more observational and empirical approach. Born into nobility in 1546, Tycho's astronomical journey began with a solar eclipse in 1560, sparking a lifelong dedication to the science. Despite initial studies aimed at a political career, Tycho's fascination with the stars led him to Leipzig and then across Europe, where he honed his observational skills and constructed innovative instruments, such as a large quadrant and a cross-staff with a novel correction table.\n\nTycho's observations were meticulous and groundbreaking. In 1572, he discovered a new star in Cassiopeia, challenging contemporary astronomical theories with his assertion that it lacked parallax, implying it was far beyond the Earth. This discovery, along with his detailed observations of comets, contradicted the prevailing belief in their atmospheric origin and suggested they orbited beyond the moon. Tycho's work culminated in the construction of Uraniborg, an advanced observatory on the island of Hveen, funded by King Frederick of Denmark. Here, Tycho amassed a wealth of accurate astronomical data, including observations of 777 stars and significant discoveries such as the moon's inequalities and the effect of refraction.\n\nDespite his noble status, Tycho faced challenges, including financial cuts and a lack of support from the Danish nobility, leading him to seek patronage elsewhere. In 1597, he moved to Prague under the patronage of Emperor Rudolph II, where he continued his work until his death in 1601. It was in Prague that Tycho's collaboration with Johannes Kepler began, a partnership that would eventually lead to Kepler's own monumental discoveries based on Tycho's observations.\n\nTycho Brahe's legacy is profound. His refusal to accept the Copernican system in totality led him to propose a hybrid model, where planets revolved around the sun, which, along with the moon and stars, orbited the Earth. While this model was not accurate, Tycho's observational data provided the foundation for Kepler's laws of planetary motion, marking a significant advancement in astronomy. Tycho's insistence on the importance of precise observational data over theoretical speculation set a new standard in astronomy, making him a crucial figure in the scientific revolution and paving the way for future discoveries. His observatory, Uraniborg, though now in ruins, symbolizes the zenith of pre-telescopic astronomy and Tycho's unparalleled contribution to the field.","original_text":"The age following that of Copernicus produced three outstanding figures associated with the science of astronomy, then reaching the close of what Professor Forbes so aptly styles the geometrical period. These three Sir David Brewster has termed \"Martyrs of Science\"; Galileo, the great Italian philosopher, has his own place among the \"Pioneers of Science\"; and invaluable though Tycho Brahe's work was, the latter can hardly be claimed as a pioneer in the same sense as the other two. Nevertheless, Kepler, the third member of the trio, could not have made his most valuable discoveries without Tycho's observations.\n\nOf noble family, born a twin on 14th December, 1546, at Knudstrup in Scania (the southernmost part of Sweden, then forming part of the kingdom of Denmark), Tycho was kidnapped a year later by a childless uncle. This uncle brought him up as his own son, provided him at the age of seven with a tutor, and sent him in 1559 to the University of Copenhagen, to study for a political career by taking courses in rhetoric and philosophy. On 21st August, 1560, however, a solar eclipse took place, total in Portugal, and therefore of small proportions in Denmark, and Tycho's keen interest was awakened, not so much by the phenomenon, as by the fact that it had occurred according to prediction. Soon afterwards he purchased an edition of Ptolemy in order to read up the subject of astronomy, to which, and to mathematics, he devoted most of the remainder of his three years' course at Copenhagen. His uncle next sent him to Leipzig to study law, but he managed to continue his astronomical researches. He obtained the Alphonsine and the new Prutenic Tables, but soon found that the latter, though more accurate than the former, failed to represent the true positions of the planets, and grasped the fact that continuous observation was essential in order to determine the true motions. He began by observing a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn in August, 1563, and found the Prutenic Tables several days in error, and the Alphonsine a whole month. He provided himself with a cross-staff for determining the angular distance between stars or other objects, and, finding the divisions of the scale inaccurate, constructed a table of corrections, an improvement that seems to have been a decided innovation, the previous practice having been to use the best available instrument and ignore its errors. About this time war broke out between Denmark and Sweden, and Tycho returned to his uncle, who was vice-admiral and attached to the king's suite. The uncle died in the following month, and early in the next year Tycho went abroad again, this time to Wittenberg. After five months, however, an outbreak of plague drove him away, and he matriculated at Rostock, where he found little astronomy but a good deal of astrology. While there he fought a duel in the dark and lost part of his nose, which he replaced by a composition of gold and silver. He carried on regular observations with his cross-staff and persevered with his astronomical studies in spite of the objections and want of sympathy of his fellow-countrymen. The King of Denmark, however, having a higher opinion of the value of science, promised Tycho the first canonry that should fall vacant in the cathedral chapter of Roskilde, so that he might be assured of an income while devoting himself to financially unproductive work. In 1568 Tycho left Rostock, and matriculated at Basle, but soon moved on to Augsburg, where he found more enthusiasm for astronomy, and induced one of his new friends to order the construction of a large 19-foot quadrant of heavy oak beams. This was the first of the series of great instruments associated with Tycho's name, and it remained in use for five years, being destroyed by a great storm in 1574. Tycho meanwhile had left Augsburg in 1570 and returned to live with his father, now governor of Helsingborg Castle, until the latter's death in the following year. Tycho then joined his mother's brother, Steen Bille, the only one of his relatives who showed any sympathy with his desire for a scientific career.\n\nOn 11th November, 1572, Tycho noticed an unfamiliar bright star in the constellation of Cassiopeia, and continued to observe it with a sextant. It was a very brilliant object, equal to Venus at its brightest for the rest of November, not falling below the first magnitude for another four months, and remaining visible for more than a year afterwards. Tycho wrote a little book on the new star, maintaining that it had practically no parallax, and therefore could not be, as some supposed, a comet. Deeming authorship beneath the dignity of a noble he was very reluctant to publish, but he was convinced of the importance of increasing the number and accuracy of observations, though he was by no means free from all the erroneous ideas of his time. The little book contained a certain amount of astrology, but Tycho evidently did not regard this as of very great importance. He adopted the view that the very rarity of the phenomenon of a new star must prevent the formulation and adoption of definite rules for determining its significance. We gather from lectures which he was persuaded to deliver at the University of Copenhagen that, though in agreement with the accepted canons of astrology as to the influence of planetary conjunctions and such phenomena on the course of human events, he did not consider the fate predicted by anyone's horoscope to be unavoidable, but thought the great value of astrology lay in the warnings derived from such computations, which should enable the believer to avoid threatened calamities. In 1575 he left Denmark once more and made his way to Cassel, where he found a kindred spirit in the studious Landgrave, William IV. of Hesse, whose astronomical pursuits had been interrupted by his accession to the government of Hesse, in 1567. Tycho observed with him for some time, the two forming a firm friendship, and then visited successively Frankfort, Basle, and Venice, returning by way of Augsburg, Ratisbon, and Saalfeld to Wittenberg; on the way he acquired various astronomical manuscripts, made friends among practical astronomers, and examined new instruments. He seemed to have considered the advantages of the several places thus visited and decided on Basle, but on his return to Denmark to fetch his family with the object of transferring them to Basle, he found that his friend the Landgrave had written to King Frederick on his behalf, urging him to provide the means to enable Tycho to pursue his astronomical work, promising that not only should credit result for the king and for Denmark but that science itself would be greatly advanced. The ultimate result of this letter was that after refusing various offers, Tycho accepted from the king a grant of the small island of Hveen, in the Sound, with a guaranteed income, in addition to a large sum from the treasury for building an observatory on the island, far removed from the distractions of court life. Here Tycho built his celebrated observatory of Uraniborg and began observations in December, 1576, using the large instruments then found necessary in order to attain the accuracy of observation which within the next half-century was to be so greatly facilitated by the invention of the telescope. Here also he built several smaller observing rooms, so that his pupils should be able to observe independently. For more than twenty years he continued his observations at Uraniborg, surrounded by his family, and attracting numerous pupils. His constant aim was to accumulate a large store of observations of a high order of accuracy, and thus to provide data for the complete reform of astronomy. As we have seen, few of the Danish nobles had any sympathy with Tycho's pursuits, and most of them strongly resented the continual expense borne by the King's treasury. Tycho moreover was so absorbed in his scientific pursuits that he would not take the trouble to be a good landlord, nor to carry out all the duties laid upon him in return for certain of his grants of income. His buildings included a chemical laboratory, and he was in the habit of making up elixirs for various medical purposes; these were quite popular, particularly as he made no charge for them. He seems to have been something of a homoeopathist, for he recommends sulphur to cure infectious diseases \"brought on by the sulphurous vapours of the Aurora Borealis\"!\n\nKing Frederick, in consideration of various grants to Tycho, relied upon his assistance in scientific matters, and especially in astrological calculations; such as the horoscope of the heir apparent, Prince Christian, born in 1577, which has been preserved among Tycho's writings. There is, however, no known copy in existence of any of the series of annual almanacs with predictions which he prepared for the King. In November, 1577, appeared a bright comet, which Tycho carefully observed with his sextant, proving that it had no perceptible parallax, and must therefore be further off than the moon. He thus definitely overthrew the common belief in the atmospheric origin of comets, which he had himself hitherto shared. With increasing accuracy he observed several other comets, notably one in 1585, when he had a full equipment of instruments and a large staff of assistants. The year 1588, which saw the death of his royal benefactor, saw also the publication of a volume of Tycho's great work \"Introduction to the New Astronomy\". The first volume, devoted to the new star of 1572, was not ready, because the reduction of the observations involved so much research to correct the star places for refraction, precession, etc.; it was not completed in fact until Tycho's death, but the second volume, dealing with the comet of 1577, was printed at Uraniborg and some copies were issued in 1588. Besides the comet observations it included an account of Tycho's system of the world. He would not accept the Copernican system, as he considered the earth too heavy and sluggish to move, and also that the authority of Scripture was against such an hypothesis. He therefore assumed that the other planets revolved about the sun, while the sun, moon, and stars revolved about the earth as a centre. Geometrically this is much the same as the Copernican system, but physically it involves the grotesque demand that the whole system of stars revolves round our insignificant little earth every twenty-four hours. Since his previous small book on the comet, Tycho had evidently considered more fully its possible astrological significance, for he foretold a religious war, giving the date of its commencement, and also the rising of a great Protestant champion. These predictions were apparently fulfilled almost to the letter by the great religious wars that broke out towards the end of the sixteenth century, and in the person of Gustavus Adolphus.\n\nKing Frederick's death did not at first affect Tycho's position, for the new king, Christian, was only eleven years old, and for some years the council of regents included two of his supporters. After their deaths, however, his emoluments began to be cut down on the plea of economy, and as he took very little trouble to carry out any other than scientific duties it was easy enough for his enemies to find fault. One after another source of income was cut off, but he persevered with his scientific work, including a catalogue of stars. He had obtained plenty of good observations of 777 stars, but thought his catalogue should contain 1000 stars, so he hastily observed as many more as he could up to the time of his leaving Hveen, though even then he had not completed his programme. About the time that King Christian reached the age of eighteen, Tycho began to look about for a new patron, and to consider the prospects offered by transferring himself with his instruments and activities to the patronage of the Emperor Rudolph II. In 1597, when even his pension from the Royal treasury was cut off, he hurriedly packed up his instruments and library, and after a few weeks' sojourn at Copenhagen, proceeded to Rostock, in Mecklenburg, whence he sent an appeal to King Christian. It is possible that had he done this before leaving Hveen it might have had more effect, but it can be readily seen from the tone of the king's unfavourable reply that his departure was regarded as an aggravation of previous shortcomings. Driven from Rostock by the plague, Tycho settled temporarily at Wandsbeck, in Holstein, but towards the end of 1598 set out to meet the Emperor at Prague. Once more plague intervened and he spent some time at Dresden, afterwards going to Wittenberg for the winter. He ultimately reached Prague in June, 1599. Rudolph granted him a salary of at least 3000 florins, promising also to settle on him the first hereditary estate that should lapse to the Crown. He offered, moreover, the choice between three castles outside Prague, of which Tycho chose Benatek. There he set about altering the buildings in readiness for his instruments, for which he sent to Uraniborg. Before they reached him, after many vexatious delays, he had given up waiting for the funds promised for his building expenses, and removed from Benatek to Prague. It was during this interval that after considerable negotiation, Kepler, who had been in correspondence with Tycho, consented to join him as an assistant. Another assistant, Longomontanus, who had been with Tycho at Uraniborg, was finding difficulty with the long series of Mars observations, and it was arranged that he should transfer his energies to the lunar observations, leaving those of Mars for Kepler. Before very much could be done with them, however, Tycho died at the end of October, 1601. He may have regretted the peaceful island of Hveen, considering the troubles in which Bohemia was rapidly becoming involved, but there is little doubt that had it not been for his self-imposed exile, his observations would not have come into Kepler's hands, and their great value might have been lost. In any case it was at Uraniborg that the mass of observations was produced upon which the fame of Tycho Brahe rests. His own discoveries, though in themselves the most important made in astronomy for many centuries, are far less valuable than those for which his observations furnished the material. He discovered the third and fourth inequalities of the moon in longitude, called respectively the variation and the annual equation, also the variability of the motion of the moon's nodes and the inclination of its orbit to the ecliptic. He obtained an improved value of the constant of precession, and did good service by rejecting the idea that it was variable, an idea which, under the name of trepidation, had for many centuries been accepted. He discovered the effect of refraction, though only approximately its amount, and determined improved values of many other astronomical constants, but singularly enough made no determination of the distance of the sun, adopting instead the ancient and erroneous value given by Hipparchus.\nHis magnificent Observatory of Uraniborg, the finest building for astronomical purposes that the world had hitherto seen, was allowed to fall into decay, and scarcely more than mere indications of the site may now be seen.","categories":["Astrological Predictions :: Mentions Tycho's astrological predictions and their fulfillment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Observatories :: Text discusses Tycho Brahe's scientific work and his Observatory of Uraniborg","Scientific Research :: Systematic investigation to establish facts and reach new conclusions","Historical Figures :: Mentions King Frederick, King Christian, Emperor Rudolph II, Kepler, Longomontanus, Hipparchus","Comets and Astronomy :: Describes Tycho's observations of comets and his work in astronomy","Astronomy :: The text discusses Tycho Brahe's astronomical research and observations.","Astrology :: Study of the movements and relative positions of celestial bodies","Scientific Matters :: The text discusses scientific matters and astrological calculations","History :: Study of past events","Astronomy in the Age of Copernicus :: Discusses prominent figures in astronomy during a specific historical period","Biography :: The text provides a biography of Tycho Brahe's early life and career."],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER III.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chapter"},
{"summary":"The summary is detailed and captures the main themes of the paragraph effectively, providing a comprehensive overview of the collaboration between Kepler and Tycho, their mutual benefits, initial hesitations, financial disputes, and Kepler's role as the Imperial Mathematician.","original_text":"The association of Kepler with Tycho was one of the most important landmarks in the history of astronomy. The younger man hoped, by the aid of Tycho's planetary observations, to obtain better support for some of his fanciful speculative theories, while the latter, who had certainly not gained in prestige by leaving Denmark, was in great need of a competent staff of assistants. Of the two it would almost seem that Tycho thought himself the greater gainer, for in spite of his reputation for brusqueness and want of consideration, he not only made light of Kepler's apology in the matter of Reymers, but treated him with uniform kindness in the face of great rudeness and ingratitude. He begged him to come \"as a welcome friend,\" though Kepler, very touchy on the subject of his own astronomical powers, was afraid he might be regarded as simply a subordinate assistant. An arrangement had been suggested by which Kepler should obtain two years' leave of absence from Gratz on full pay, which, because of the higher cost of living in Prague, should be supplemented by the Emperor; but before this could be concluded, Kepler threw up his professorship, and thinking he had thereby also lost the chance of going to Prague, applied to Maestlin and others of his Tbingen friends to make interest for him with the Duke of Wurtemberg and secure the professorship of medicine. Tycho, however, still urged him to come to Prague, promising to do his utmost to secure for him a permanent appointment, or in any event to see that he was not the loser by coming. Kepler was delayed by illness on the way, but ultimately reached Prague, accompanied by his wife, and for some time lived entirely at Tycho's expense, writing by way of return essays against Reymers and another man, who had claimed the credit of the Tychonic system. This Kepler could do with a clear conscience, as it was only a question of priority and did not involve any support of the system, which he deemed far inferior to that of Copernicus. The following year saw friction between the two astronomers, and we learn from Kepler's abject letter of apology that he was entirely in the wrong. It was about money matters, which in one way or another embittered the rest of Kepler's life, and it arose during his absence from Prague. On his return in September, 1601, Tycho presented him to the Emperor, who gave him the title of Imperial Mathematician, on condition of assisting Tycho in his calculations, the very thing Kepler was most anxious to be allowed to do: for nowhere else in the world was there such a collection of good observations sufficient for his purpose of reforming the whole theory of astronomy. The Emperor's interest was still mainly with astrology, but he liked to think that his name would be handed down to posterity in connection with the new Planetary Tables in the same way as that of Alphonso of Castile, and he made liberal promises to pay the expenses. Tycho's other principal assistant, Longomontanus, did not stay long after giving up the Mars observations to Kepler, but instead of working at the new lunar theory, suddenly left to take up a professorship of astronomy in his native Denmark. Very shortly afterwards Tycho himself died of acute distemper; Kepler began to prepare the mass of manuscripts for publication, but, as everything was claimed by the Brahe family, he was not allowed to finish the work. He succeeded to Tycho's post of principal mathematician to the Emperor, at a reduced official salary, which owing to the emptiness of the Imperial treasury was almost always in arrear. In order to meet his expenses he had recourse to the casting of nativities, for which he gained considerable reputation and received very good pay. He worked by the conventional rules of astrology, and was quite prepared to take fees for so doing, although he had very little faith in them, preferring his own fanciful ideas.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the important aspects of Kepler and Tycho's collaboration, Kepler's initial concerns and financial tensions, and the Emperor's role in Kepler's appointment as Imperial Mathematician. It provides a thorough overview of the key events and relationships discussed in the text.","original_text":"The association of Kepler with Tycho was one of the most important landmarks in the history of astronomy. The younger man hoped, by the aid of Tycho's planetary observations, to obtain better support for some of his fanciful speculative theories, while the latter, who had certainly not gained in prestige by leaving Denmark, was in great need of a competent staff of assistants. Of the two it would almost seem that Tycho thought himself the greater gainer, for in spite of his reputation for brusqueness and want of consideration, he not only made light of Kepler's apology in the matter of Reymers, but treated him with uniform kindness in the face of great rudeness and ingratitude. He begged him to come \"as a welcome friend,\" though Kepler, very touchy on the subject of his own astronomical powers, was afraid he might be regarded as simply a subordinate assistant. An arrangement had been suggested by which Kepler should obtain two years' leave of absence from Gratz on full pay, which, because of the higher cost of living in Prague, should be supplemented by the Emperor; but before this could be concluded, Kepler threw up his professorship, and thinking he had thereby also lost the chance of going to Prague, applied to Maestlin and others of his Tbingen friends to make interest for him with the Duke of Wurtemberg and secure the professorship of medicine. Tycho, however, still urged him to come to Prague, promising to do his utmost to secure for him a permanent appointment, or in any event to see that he was not the loser by coming. Kepler was delayed by illness on the way, but ultimately reached Prague, accompanied by his wife, and for some time lived entirely at Tycho's expense, writing by way of return essays against Reymers and another man, who had claimed the credit of the Tychonic system. This Kepler could do with a clear conscience, as it was only a question of priority and did not involve any support of the system, which he deemed far inferior to that of Copernicus. The following year saw friction between the two astronomers, and we learn from Kepler's abject letter of apology that he was entirely in the wrong. It was about money matters, which in one way or another embittered the rest of Kepler's life, and it arose during his absence from Prague. On his return in September, 1601, Tycho presented him to the Emperor, who gave him the title of Imperial Mathematician, on condition of assisting Tycho in his calculations, the very thing Kepler was most anxious to be allowed to do: for nowhere else in the world was there such a collection of good observations sufficient for his purpose of reforming the whole theory of astronomy. The Emperor's interest was still mainly with astrology, but he liked to think that his name would be handed down to posterity in connection with the new Planetary Tables in the same way as that of Alphonso of Castile, and he made liberal promises to pay the expenses. Tycho's other principal assistant, Longomontanus, did not stay long after giving up the Mars observations to Kepler, but instead of working at the new lunar theory, suddenly left to take up a professorship of astronomy in his native Denmark. Very shortly afterwards Tycho himself died of acute distemper; Kepler began to prepare the mass of manuscripts for publication, but, as everything was claimed by the Brahe family, he was not allowed to finish the work. He succeeded to Tycho's post of principal mathematician to the Emperor, at a reduced official salary, which owing to the emptiness of the Imperial treasury was almost always in arrear. In order to meet his expenses he had recourse to the casting of nativities, for which he gained considerable reputation and received very good pay. He worked by the conventional rules of astrology, and was quite prepared to take fees for so doing, although he had very little faith in them, preferring his own fanciful ideas.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the collaboration between Kepler and Tycho, detailing their initial interactions, Kepler's journey to Prague, financial disputes, and Kepler's appointment as the Imperial Mathematician. It provides a comprehensive overview of the significant events and dynamics between the two astronomers.","original_text":"The association of Kepler with Tycho was one of the most important landmarks in the history of astronomy. The younger man hoped, by the aid of Tycho's planetary observations, to obtain better support for some of his fanciful speculative theories, while the latter, who had certainly not gained in prestige by leaving Denmark, was in great need of a competent staff of assistants. Of the two it would almost seem that Tycho thought himself the greater gainer, for in spite of his reputation for brusqueness and want of consideration, he not only made light of Kepler's apology in the matter of Reymers, but treated him with uniform kindness in the face of great rudeness and ingratitude. He begged him to come \"as a welcome friend,\" though Kepler, very touchy on the subject of his own astronomical powers, was afraid he might be regarded as simply a subordinate assistant. An arrangement had been suggested by which Kepler should obtain two years' leave of absence from Gratz on full pay, which, because of the higher cost of living in Prague, should be supplemented by the Emperor; but before this could be concluded, Kepler threw up his professorship, and thinking he had thereby also lost the chance of going to Prague, applied to Maestlin and others of his Tbingen friends to make interest for him with the Duke of Wurtemberg and secure the professorship of medicine. Tycho, however, still urged him to come to Prague, promising to do his utmost to secure for him a permanent appointment, or in any event to see that he was not the loser by coming. Kepler was delayed by illness on the way, but ultimately reached Prague, accompanied by his wife, and for some time lived entirely at Tycho's expense, writing by way of return essays against Reymers and another man, who had claimed the credit of the Tychonic system. This Kepler could do with a clear conscience, as it was only a question of priority and did not involve any support of the system, which he deemed far inferior to that of Copernicus. The following year saw friction between the two astronomers, and we learn from Kepler's abject letter of apology that he was entirely in the wrong. It was about money matters, which in one way or another embittered the rest of Kepler's life, and it arose during his absence from Prague. On his return in September, 1601, Tycho presented him to the Emperor, who gave him the title of Imperial Mathematician, on condition of assisting Tycho in his calculations, the very thing Kepler was most anxious to be allowed to do: for nowhere else in the world was there such a collection of good observations sufficient for his purpose of reforming the whole theory of astronomy. The Emperor's interest was still mainly with astrology, but he liked to think that his name would be handed down to posterity in connection with the new Planetary Tables in the same way as that of Alphonso of Castile, and he made liberal promises to pay the expenses. Tycho's other principal assistant, Longomontanus, did not stay long after giving up the Mars observations to Kepler, but instead of working at the new lunar theory, suddenly left to take up a professorship of astronomy in his native Denmark. Very shortly afterwards Tycho himself died of acute distemper; Kepler began to prepare the mass of manuscripts for publication, but, as everything was claimed by the Brahe family, he was not allowed to finish the work. He succeeded to Tycho's post of principal mathematician to the Emperor, at a reduced official salary, which owing to the emptiness of the Imperial treasury was almost always in arrear. In order to meet his expenses he had recourse to the casting of nativities, for which he gained considerable reputation and received very good pay. He worked by the conventional rules of astrology, and was quite prepared to take fees for so doing, although he had very little faith in them, preferring his own fanciful ideas.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler\" discusses the significant collaboration between Kepler and Tycho Brahe in the field of astronomy. Kepler, seeking to bolster his speculative theories with Tycho's planetary observations, joined forces with Tycho, who was in need of competent assistants. Despite initial concerns about his role, Kepler eventually accepted Tycho's invitation to Prague. The relationship between the two astronomers faced challenges, including financial disputes and disagreements over astronomical theories. Kepler's appointment as Imperial Mathematician by the Emperor marked a turning point, as he gained access to valuable observations for his astronomical research. However, Tycho's sudden death and disputes with the Brahe family complicated Kepler's efforts to publish their collaborative work. Kepler's financial struggles led him to practice astrology for income, despite his personal skepticism towards the field.","original_text":"The association of Kepler with Tycho was one of the most important landmarks in the history of astronomy. The younger man hoped, by the aid of Tycho's planetary observations, to obtain better support for some of his fanciful speculative theories, while the latter, who had certainly not gained in prestige by leaving Denmark, was in great need of a competent staff of assistants. Of the two it would almost seem that Tycho thought himself the greater gainer, for in spite of his reputation for brusqueness and want of consideration, he not only made light of Kepler's apology in the matter of Reymers, but treated him with uniform kindness in the face of great rudeness and ingratitude. He begged him to come \"as a welcome friend,\" though Kepler, very touchy on the subject of his own astronomical powers, was afraid he might be regarded as simply a subordinate assistant. An arrangement had been suggested by which Kepler should obtain two years' leave of absence from Gratz on full pay, which, because of the higher cost of living in Prague, should be supplemented by the Emperor; but before this could be concluded, Kepler threw up his professorship, and thinking he had thereby also lost the chance of going to Prague, applied to Maestlin and others of his Tbingen friends to make interest for him with the Duke of Wurtemberg and secure the professorship of medicine. Tycho, however, still urged him to come to Prague, promising to do his utmost to secure for him a permanent appointment, or in any event to see that he was not the loser by coming. Kepler was delayed by illness on the way, but ultimately reached Prague, accompanied by his wife, and for some time lived entirely at Tycho's expense, writing by way of return essays against Reymers and another man, who had claimed the credit of the Tychonic system. This Kepler could do with a clear conscience, as it was only a question of priority and did not involve any support of the system, which he deemed far inferior to that of Copernicus. The following year saw friction between the two astronomers, and we learn from Kepler's abject letter of apology that he was entirely in the wrong. It was about money matters, which in one way or another embittered the rest of Kepler's life, and it arose during his absence from Prague. On his return in September, 1601, Tycho presented him to the Emperor, who gave him the title of Imperial Mathematician, on condition of assisting Tycho in his calculations, the very thing Kepler was most anxious to be allowed to do: for nowhere else in the world was there such a collection of good observations sufficient for his purpose of reforming the whole theory of astronomy. The Emperor's interest was still mainly with astrology, but he liked to think that his name would be handed down to posterity in connection with the new Planetary Tables in the same way as that of Alphonso of Castile, and he made liberal promises to pay the expenses. Tycho's other principal assistant, Longomontanus, did not stay long after giving up the Mars observations to Kepler, but instead of working at the new lunar theory, suddenly left to take up a professorship of astronomy in his native Denmark. Very shortly afterwards Tycho himself died of acute distemper; Kepler began to prepare the mass of manuscripts for publication, but, as everything was claimed by the Brahe family, he was not allowed to finish the work. He succeeded to Tycho's post of principal mathematician to the Emperor, at a reduced official salary, which owing to the emptiness of the Imperial treasury was almost always in arrear. In order to meet his expenses he had recourse to the casting of nativities, for which he gained considerable reputation and received very good pay. He worked by the conventional rules of astrology, and was quite prepared to take fees for so doing, although he had very little faith in them, preferring his own fanciful ideas.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's observations of the new star in Cassiopeia in 1604, his astrological interpretations, and his complex views on astrology, providing a clear and concise overview of the paragraph.","original_text":"In 1604 the constellation of Cassiopeia was once more temporarily enriched by the appearance of a new star, said by some to be brighter than Tycho's nova, and by others to be twice as bright as Jupiter. Kepler at once wrote a short account of it, from which may be gathered some idea of his attitude towards astrology. Contrasting the two novae, he says: \"Yonder one chose for its appearance a time no way remarkable, and came into the world quite unexpectedly, like an enemy storming a town and breaking into the market-place before the citizens are aware of his approach; but ours has come exactly in the year of which astrologers have written so much about the fiery trigon that happens in it; just in the month in which (according to Cyprian), Mars comes up to a very perfect conjunction with the other two superior planets; just in the day when Mars has joined Jupiter, and just in the region where this conjunction has taken place. Therefore the apparition of this star is not like a secret hostile irruption, as was that one of 1572, but the spectacle of a public triumph, or the entry of a mighty potentate; when the couriers ride in some time before to prepare his lodgings, and the crowd of young urchins begin to think the time over long to wait, then roll in, one after another, the ammunition and money, and baggage waggons, and presently the trampling of horse and the rush of people from every side to the streets and windows; and when the crowd have gazed with their jaws all agape at the troops of knights; then at last the trumpeters and archers and lackeys so distinguish the person of the monarch, that there is no occasion to point him out, but every one cries of his own accord--'Here we have him'. What it may portend is hard to determine, and this much only is certain, that it comes to tell mankind either nothing at all or high and mighty news, quite beyond human sense and understanding. It will have an important influence on political and social relations; not indeed by its own nature, but as it were accidentally through the disposition of mankind. First, it portends to the booksellers great disturbances and tolerable gains; for almost every _Theologus_, _Philosophicus_, _Medicus_, and _Mathematicus_, or whoever else, having no laborious occupation entrusted to him, seeks his pleasure _in studiis_, will make particular remarks upon it, and will wish to bring these remarks to the light. Just so will others, learned and unlearned, wish to know its meaning, and they will buy the authors who profess to tell them. I mention these things merely by way of example, because although thus much can be easily predicted without great skill, yet may it happen just as easily, and in the same manner, that the vulgar, or whoever else is of easy faith, or, it may be, crazy, may wish to exalt himself into a great prophet; or it may even happen that some powerful lord, who has good foundation and beginning of great dignities, will be cheered on by this phenomenon to venture on some new scheme, just as if God had set up this star in the darkness merely to enlighten them.\" He made no secret of his views on conventional astrology, as to which he claimed to speak with the authority of one fully conversant with its principles, but he nevertheless expressed his sincere conviction that the conjunctions and aspects of the planets certainly did affect things on the earth, maintaining that he was driven to this belief against his will by \"most unfailing experiences\".","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's account of the appearance of a new star in 1604, his comparison with previous novae, his astrological musings, and the potential societal implications of the new star's arrival.","original_text":"In 1604 the constellation of Cassiopeia was once more temporarily enriched by the appearance of a new star, said by some to be brighter than Tycho's nova, and by others to be twice as bright as Jupiter. Kepler at once wrote a short account of it, from which may be gathered some idea of his attitude towards astrology. Contrasting the two novae, he says: \"Yonder one chose for its appearance a time no way remarkable, and came into the world quite unexpectedly, like an enemy storming a town and breaking into the market-place before the citizens are aware of his approach; but ours has come exactly in the year of which astrologers have written so much about the fiery trigon that happens in it; just in the month in which (according to Cyprian), Mars comes up to a very perfect conjunction with the other two superior planets; just in the day when Mars has joined Jupiter, and just in the region where this conjunction has taken place. Therefore the apparition of this star is not like a secret hostile irruption, as was that one of 1572, but the spectacle of a public triumph, or the entry of a mighty potentate; when the couriers ride in some time before to prepare his lodgings, and the crowd of young urchins begin to think the time over long to wait, then roll in, one after another, the ammunition and money, and baggage waggons, and presently the trampling of horse and the rush of people from every side to the streets and windows; and when the crowd have gazed with their jaws all agape at the troops of knights; then at last the trumpeters and archers and lackeys so distinguish the person of the monarch, that there is no occasion to point him out, but every one cries of his own accord--'Here we have him'. What it may portend is hard to determine, and this much only is certain, that it comes to tell mankind either nothing at all or high and mighty news, quite beyond human sense and understanding. It will have an important influence on political and social relations; not indeed by its own nature, but as it were accidentally through the disposition of mankind. First, it portends to the booksellers great disturbances and tolerable gains; for almost every _Theologus_, _Philosophicus_, _Medicus_, and _Mathematicus_, or whoever else, having no laborious occupation entrusted to him, seeks his pleasure _in studiis_, will make particular remarks upon it, and will wish to bring these remarks to the light. Just so will others, learned and unlearned, wish to know its meaning, and they will buy the authors who profess to tell them. I mention these things merely by way of example, because although thus much can be easily predicted without great skill, yet may it happen just as easily, and in the same manner, that the vulgar, or whoever else is of easy faith, or, it may be, crazy, may wish to exalt himself into a great prophet; or it may even happen that some powerful lord, who has good foundation and beginning of great dignities, will be cheered on by this phenomenon to venture on some new scheme, just as if God had set up this star in the darkness merely to enlighten them.\" He made no secret of his views on conventional astrology, as to which he claimed to speak with the authority of one fully conversant with its principles, but he nevertheless expressed his sincere conviction that the conjunctions and aspects of the planets certainly did affect things on the earth, maintaining that he was driven to this belief against his will by \"most unfailing experiences\".","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In 1604, a new star appeared in the constellation of Cassiopeia, sparking comparisons to Tycho's nova and Jupiter's brightness. Kepler, in his account, juxtaposed the two novae, highlighting the astrological significance of the new star's appearance. He described the new star's arrival as a grand event, akin to a triumphant entry of a potentate, occurring during specific planetary alignments. Kepler expressed skepticism towards conventional astrology but acknowledged the potential influence of planetary positions on earthly matters, attributing this belief to his personal experiences.","original_text":"In 1604 the constellation of Cassiopeia was once more temporarily enriched by the appearance of a new star, said by some to be brighter than Tycho's nova, and by others to be twice as bright as Jupiter. Kepler at once wrote a short account of it, from which may be gathered some idea of his attitude towards astrology. Contrasting the two novae, he says: \"Yonder one chose for its appearance a time no way remarkable, and came into the world quite unexpectedly, like an enemy storming a town and breaking into the market-place before the citizens are aware of his approach; but ours has come exactly in the year of which astrologers have written so much about the fiery trigon that happens in it; just in the month in which (according to Cyprian), Mars comes up to a very perfect conjunction with the other two superior planets; just in the day when Mars has joined Jupiter, and just in the region where this conjunction has taken place. Therefore the apparition of this star is not like a secret hostile irruption, as was that one of 1572, but the spectacle of a public triumph, or the entry of a mighty potentate; when the couriers ride in some time before to prepare his lodgings, and the crowd of young urchins begin to think the time over long to wait, then roll in, one after another, the ammunition and money, and baggage waggons, and presently the trampling of horse and the rush of people from every side to the streets and windows; and when the crowd have gazed with their jaws all agape at the troops of knights; then at last the trumpeters and archers and lackeys so distinguish the person of the monarch, that there is no occasion to point him out, but every one cries of his own accord--'Here we have him'. What it may portend is hard to determine, and this much only is certain, that it comes to tell mankind either nothing at all or high and mighty news, quite beyond human sense and understanding. It will have an important influence on political and social relations; not indeed by its own nature, but as it were accidentally through the disposition of mankind. First, it portends to the booksellers great disturbances and tolerable gains; for almost every _Theologus_, _Philosophicus_, _Medicus_, and _Mathematicus_, or whoever else, having no laborious occupation entrusted to him, seeks his pleasure _in studiis_, will make particular remarks upon it, and will wish to bring these remarks to the light. Just so will others, learned and unlearned, wish to know its meaning, and they will buy the authors who profess to tell them. I mention these things merely by way of example, because although thus much can be easily predicted without great skill, yet may it happen just as easily, and in the same manner, that the vulgar, or whoever else is of easy faith, or, it may be, crazy, may wish to exalt himself into a great prophet; or it may even happen that some powerful lord, who has good foundation and beginning of great dignities, will be cheered on by this phenomenon to venture on some new scheme, just as if God had set up this star in the darkness merely to enlighten them.\" He made no secret of his views on conventional astrology, as to which he claimed to speak with the authority of one fully conversant with its principles, but he nevertheless expressed his sincere conviction that the conjunctions and aspects of the planets certainly did affect things on the earth, maintaining that he was driven to this belief against his will by \"most unfailing experiences\".","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses an event in 1604 where a new star appeared in the constellation of Cassiopeia, sparking debates about its brightness compared to Tycho's nova and Jupiter. Kepler promptly wrote about it, revealing his stance on astrology. He contrasts this new star's appearance with the previous one in 1572, likening it to a grand arrival of a potentate, suggesting significant societal impacts. Kepler acknowledges the uncertainty of its meaning but anticipates disturbances and gains for various professionals like theologians, philosophers, and mathematicians who will analyze and interpret the event. While Kepler openly criticizes conventional astrology, he reluctantly admits that planetary alignments do influence earthly matters based on his observations, despite his initial skepticism.","original_text":"In 1604 the constellation of Cassiopeia was once more temporarily enriched by the appearance of a new star, said by some to be brighter than Tycho's nova, and by others to be twice as bright as Jupiter. Kepler at once wrote a short account of it, from which may be gathered some idea of his attitude towards astrology. Contrasting the two novae, he says: \"Yonder one chose for its appearance a time no way remarkable, and came into the world quite unexpectedly, like an enemy storming a town and breaking into the market-place before the citizens are aware of his approach; but ours has come exactly in the year of which astrologers have written so much about the fiery trigon that happens in it; just in the month in which (according to Cyprian), Mars comes up to a very perfect conjunction with the other two superior planets; just in the day when Mars has joined Jupiter, and just in the region where this conjunction has taken place. Therefore the apparition of this star is not like a secret hostile irruption, as was that one of 1572, but the spectacle of a public triumph, or the entry of a mighty potentate; when the couriers ride in some time before to prepare his lodgings, and the crowd of young urchins begin to think the time over long to wait, then roll in, one after another, the ammunition and money, and baggage waggons, and presently the trampling of horse and the rush of people from every side to the streets and windows; and when the crowd have gazed with their jaws all agape at the troops of knights; then at last the trumpeters and archers and lackeys so distinguish the person of the monarch, that there is no occasion to point him out, but every one cries of his own accord--'Here we have him'. What it may portend is hard to determine, and this much only is certain, that it comes to tell mankind either nothing at all or high and mighty news, quite beyond human sense and understanding. It will have an important influence on political and social relations; not indeed by its own nature, but as it were accidentally through the disposition of mankind. First, it portends to the booksellers great disturbances and tolerable gains; for almost every _Theologus_, _Philosophicus_, _Medicus_, and _Mathematicus_, or whoever else, having no laborious occupation entrusted to him, seeks his pleasure _in studiis_, will make particular remarks upon it, and will wish to bring these remarks to the light. Just so will others, learned and unlearned, wish to know its meaning, and they will buy the authors who profess to tell them. I mention these things merely by way of example, because although thus much can be easily predicted without great skill, yet may it happen just as easily, and in the same manner, that the vulgar, or whoever else is of easy faith, or, it may be, crazy, may wish to exalt himself into a great prophet; or it may even happen that some powerful lord, who has good foundation and beginning of great dignities, will be cheered on by this phenomenon to venture on some new scheme, just as if God had set up this star in the darkness merely to enlighten them.\" He made no secret of his views on conventional astrology, as to which he claimed to speak with the authority of one fully conversant with its principles, but he nevertheless expressed his sincere conviction that the conjunctions and aspects of the planets certainly did affect things on the earth, maintaining that he was driven to this belief against his will by \"most unfailing experiences\".","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the financial challenges faced by Kepler in completing the Rudolphine Tables due to lack of funding. Despite his sufficient nominal salary, financial constraints led him to focus on more financially viable projects like horoscopes and other writings. In 1604, he published a work on optics, comparing the eye's mechanism with the Camera Obscura, delving into refraction theories, and experimenting with various hypotheses, although often leading to dead ends. Kepler's contributions to optics, though not discovering the true law of refraction, included valuable insights like the effect of atmospheric conditions on refraction and the dependence of rainbow colors on angles, approaching ideas later developed by Newton. Additionally, he proposed the use of two convex lenses in telescopes for astronomical observations, a concept later realized by Gascoigne.","original_text":"Meanwhile the projected Rudolphine Tables were continually delayed by the want of money. Kepler's nominal salary should have been ample for his expenses, increased though they were by his growing family, but in the depleted state of the treasury there were many who objected to any payment for such \"unpractical\" purposes. This particular attitude has not been confined to any special epoch or country, but the obvious result in Kepler's case was to compel him to apply himself to less expensive matters than the Planetary Tables, and among these must be included not only the horoscopes or nativities, which owing to his reputation were always in demand, but also other writings which probably did not pay so well. In 1604 he published \"A Supplement to Vitellion,\" containing the earliest known reasonable theory of optics, and especially of dioptrics or vision through lenses. He compared the mechanism of the eye with that of Porta's \"Camera Obscura,\" but made no attempt to explain how the image formed on the retina is understood by the brain. He went carefully into the question of refraction, the importance of which Tycho had been the first astronomer to recognise, though he only applied it at low altitudes, and had not arrived at a true theory or accurate values. Kepler wasted a good deal of time and ingenuity on trial theories. He would invariably start with some hypothesis, and work out the effect. He would then test it by experiment, and when it failed would at once recognise that his hypothesis was _a priori_ bound to fail. He rarely seems to have noticed the fatal objections in time to save himself trouble. He would then at once start again on a new hypothesis, equally gratuitous and equally unfounded. It never seems to have occurred to him that there might be a better way of approaching a problem. Among the lines he followed in this particular investigation were, first, that refraction depends only on the angle of incidence, which, he says, cannot be correct as it would thus be the same for all refracting substances; next, that it depended also on the density of the medium. This was a good shot, but he unfortunately assumed that all rays passing into a denser medium would apparently penetrate it to a depth depending only on the medium, which means that there is a constant ratio between the tangents, instead of the sines, of the inclination of the incident and refracted rays to the normal. Experiment proved that this gave too high values for refraction near the vertical compared with those near the horizon, so Kepler \"went off at a tangent\" and tried a totally new set of ideas, which all reduced to the absurdity of a refraction which vanished at the horizon. These were followed by another set, involving either a constant amount of refraction or one becoming infinite. He then came to the conclusion that these geometrical methods must fail because the refracted image is not real, and determined to try by analogy only, comparing the equally unreal image formed by a mirror with that formed by refraction in water. He noticed how the bottom of a vessel containing water appears to rise more and more away from the vertical, and at once jumped to the analogy of a concave mirror, which magnifies the image, while a convex mirror was likened to a rarer medium. This line of attack also failed him, as did various attempts to find relations between his measurements of refraction and conic sections, and he broke off suddenly with a diatribe against Tycho's critics, whom he likened to blind men disputing about colours. Not many years later Snell discovered the true law of refraction, but Kepler's contribution to the subject, though he failed to discover the actual law, includes several of the adopted \"by-laws\". He noted that atmospheric refraction would alter with the height of the atmosphere and with temperature, and also recognised the fact that rainbow colours depend on the angle of refraction, whether seen in the rainbow itself, or in dew, glass, water, or any similar medium. He thus came near to anticipating Newton. Before leaving the subject of Kepler's optics it will be well to recall that a few years later after hearing of Galileo's telescope, Kepler suggested that for astronomical purposes two convex lenses should be used, so that there should be a real image where measuring wires could be placed for reference. He did not carry out the idea himself, and it was left to the Englishman Gascoigne to produce the first instrument on this \"Keplerian\" principle, universally known as the Astronomical Telescope.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, facing financial constraints due to delays in funding the Rudolphine Tables, had to diversify his work to sustain his family. He engaged in astrology and authored various texts, including a significant contribution to optics in 1604. His optical theories, though often speculative and leading to dead ends, laid groundwork for future discoveries. Kepler's method involved hypothesis, experimentation, and adaptation, showcasing his persistence and innovative thinking.","original_text":"Meanwhile the projected Rudolphine Tables were continually delayed by the want of money. Kepler's nominal salary should have been ample for his expenses, increased though they were by his growing family, but in the depleted state of the treasury there were many who objected to any payment for such \"unpractical\" purposes. This particular attitude has not been confined to any special epoch or country, but the obvious result in Kepler's case was to compel him to apply himself to less expensive matters than the Planetary Tables, and among these must be included not only the horoscopes or nativities, which owing to his reputation were always in demand, but also other writings which probably did not pay so well. In 1604 he published \"A Supplement to Vitellion,\" containing the earliest known reasonable theory of optics, and especially of dioptrics or vision through lenses. He compared the mechanism of the eye with that of Porta's \"Camera Obscura,\" but made no attempt to explain how the image formed on the retina is understood by the brain. He went carefully into the question of refraction, the importance of which Tycho had been the first astronomer to recognise, though he only applied it at low altitudes, and had not arrived at a true theory or accurate values. Kepler wasted a good deal of time and ingenuity on trial theories. He would invariably start with some hypothesis, and work out the effect. He would then test it by experiment, and when it failed would at once recognise that his hypothesis was _a priori_ bound to fail. He rarely seems to have noticed the fatal objections in time to save himself trouble. He would then at once start again on a new hypothesis, equally gratuitous and equally unfounded. It never seems to have occurred to him that there might be a better way of approaching a problem. Among the lines he followed in this particular investigation were, first, that refraction depends only on the angle of incidence, which, he says, cannot be correct as it would thus be the same for all refracting substances; next, that it depended also on the density of the medium. This was a good shot, but he unfortunately assumed that all rays passing into a denser medium would apparently penetrate it to a depth depending only on the medium, which means that there is a constant ratio between the tangents, instead of the sines, of the inclination of the incident and refracted rays to the normal. Experiment proved that this gave too high values for refraction near the vertical compared with those near the horizon, so Kepler \"went off at a tangent\" and tried a totally new set of ideas, which all reduced to the absurdity of a refraction which vanished at the horizon. These were followed by another set, involving either a constant amount of refraction or one becoming infinite. He then came to the conclusion that these geometrical methods must fail because the refracted image is not real, and determined to try by analogy only, comparing the equally unreal image formed by a mirror with that formed by refraction in water. He noticed how the bottom of a vessel containing water appears to rise more and more away from the vertical, and at once jumped to the analogy of a concave mirror, which magnifies the image, while a convex mirror was likened to a rarer medium. This line of attack also failed him, as did various attempts to find relations between his measurements of refraction and conic sections, and he broke off suddenly with a diatribe against Tycho's critics, whom he likened to blind men disputing about colours. Not many years later Snell discovered the true law of refraction, but Kepler's contribution to the subject, though he failed to discover the actual law, includes several of the adopted \"by-laws\". He noted that atmospheric refraction would alter with the height of the atmosphere and with temperature, and also recognised the fact that rainbow colours depend on the angle of refraction, whether seen in the rainbow itself, or in dew, glass, water, or any similar medium. He thus came near to anticipating Newton. Before leaving the subject of Kepler's optics it will be well to recall that a few years later after hearing of Galileo's telescope, Kepler suggested that for astronomical purposes two convex lenses should be used, so that there should be a real image where measuring wires could be placed for reference. He did not carry out the idea himself, and it was left to the Englishman Gascoigne to produce the first instrument on this \"Keplerian\" principle, universally known as the Astronomical Telescope.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler faced delays in creating the Rudolphine Tables due to financial constraints, leading him to engage in activities like providing horoscopes and exploring optics. His optical investigations involved hypotheses, experiments, and trial theories, although he did not discover the true law of refraction. Kepler's work included insights on atmospheric refraction, rainbow colors, and suggesting the use of two convex lenses in telescopes for astronomical purposes.","original_text":"Meanwhile the projected Rudolphine Tables were continually delayed by the want of money. Kepler's nominal salary should have been ample for his expenses, increased though they were by his growing family, but in the depleted state of the treasury there were many who objected to any payment for such \"unpractical\" purposes. This particular attitude has not been confined to any special epoch or country, but the obvious result in Kepler's case was to compel him to apply himself to less expensive matters than the Planetary Tables, and among these must be included not only the horoscopes or nativities, which owing to his reputation were always in demand, but also other writings which probably did not pay so well. In 1604 he published \"A Supplement to Vitellion,\" containing the earliest known reasonable theory of optics, and especially of dioptrics or vision through lenses. He compared the mechanism of the eye with that of Porta's \"Camera Obscura,\" but made no attempt to explain how the image formed on the retina is understood by the brain. He went carefully into the question of refraction, the importance of which Tycho had been the first astronomer to recognise, though he only applied it at low altitudes, and had not arrived at a true theory or accurate values. Kepler wasted a good deal of time and ingenuity on trial theories. He would invariably start with some hypothesis, and work out the effect. He would then test it by experiment, and when it failed would at once recognise that his hypothesis was _a priori_ bound to fail. He rarely seems to have noticed the fatal objections in time to save himself trouble. He would then at once start again on a new hypothesis, equally gratuitous and equally unfounded. It never seems to have occurred to him that there might be a better way of approaching a problem. Among the lines he followed in this particular investigation were, first, that refraction depends only on the angle of incidence, which, he says, cannot be correct as it would thus be the same for all refracting substances; next, that it depended also on the density of the medium. This was a good shot, but he unfortunately assumed that all rays passing into a denser medium would apparently penetrate it to a depth depending only on the medium, which means that there is a constant ratio between the tangents, instead of the sines, of the inclination of the incident and refracted rays to the normal. Experiment proved that this gave too high values for refraction near the vertical compared with those near the horizon, so Kepler \"went off at a tangent\" and tried a totally new set of ideas, which all reduced to the absurdity of a refraction which vanished at the horizon. These were followed by another set, involving either a constant amount of refraction or one becoming infinite. He then came to the conclusion that these geometrical methods must fail because the refracted image is not real, and determined to try by analogy only, comparing the equally unreal image formed by a mirror with that formed by refraction in water. He noticed how the bottom of a vessel containing water appears to rise more and more away from the vertical, and at once jumped to the analogy of a concave mirror, which magnifies the image, while a convex mirror was likened to a rarer medium. This line of attack also failed him, as did various attempts to find relations between his measurements of refraction and conic sections, and he broke off suddenly with a diatribe against Tycho's critics, whom he likened to blind men disputing about colours. Not many years later Snell discovered the true law of refraction, but Kepler's contribution to the subject, though he failed to discover the actual law, includes several of the adopted \"by-laws\". He noted that atmospheric refraction would alter with the height of the atmosphere and with temperature, and also recognised the fact that rainbow colours depend on the angle of refraction, whether seen in the rainbow itself, or in dew, glass, water, or any similar medium. He thus came near to anticipating Newton. Before leaving the subject of Kepler's optics it will be well to recall that a few years later after hearing of Galileo's telescope, Kepler suggested that for astronomical purposes two convex lenses should be used, so that there should be a real image where measuring wires could be placed for reference. He did not carry out the idea himself, and it was left to the Englishman Gascoigne to produce the first instrument on this \"Keplerian\" principle, universally known as the Astronomical Telescope.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In this paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" the focus shifts to the financial challenges faced by Kepler in completing the Rudolphine Tables due to a lack of funds. Despite his sufficient salary, financial constraints forced Kepler to divert his attention to more cost-effective endeavors, such as composing horoscopes and other less lucrative writings. In 1604, Kepler published \"A Supplement to Vitellion,\" introducing a pioneering theory of optics, exploring topics like refraction and the mechanism of vision through lenses. Kepler's approach to problem-solving in optics involved trial and error with various hypotheses, experiments, and analogies, showcasing his persistence and ingenuity in the face of challenges. Despite not discovering the true law of refraction, Kepler's contributions to optics included insights on atmospheric refraction, rainbow colors, and the potential design of astronomical telescopes with two convex lenses.","original_text":"Meanwhile the projected Rudolphine Tables were continually delayed by the want of money. Kepler's nominal salary should have been ample for his expenses, increased though they were by his growing family, but in the depleted state of the treasury there were many who objected to any payment for such \"unpractical\" purposes. This particular attitude has not been confined to any special epoch or country, but the obvious result in Kepler's case was to compel him to apply himself to less expensive matters than the Planetary Tables, and among these must be included not only the horoscopes or nativities, which owing to his reputation were always in demand, but also other writings which probably did not pay so well. In 1604 he published \"A Supplement to Vitellion,\" containing the earliest known reasonable theory of optics, and especially of dioptrics or vision through lenses. He compared the mechanism of the eye with that of Porta's \"Camera Obscura,\" but made no attempt to explain how the image formed on the retina is understood by the brain. He went carefully into the question of refraction, the importance of which Tycho had been the first astronomer to recognise, though he only applied it at low altitudes, and had not arrived at a true theory or accurate values. Kepler wasted a good deal of time and ingenuity on trial theories. He would invariably start with some hypothesis, and work out the effect. He would then test it by experiment, and when it failed would at once recognise that his hypothesis was _a priori_ bound to fail. He rarely seems to have noticed the fatal objections in time to save himself trouble. He would then at once start again on a new hypothesis, equally gratuitous and equally unfounded. It never seems to have occurred to him that there might be a better way of approaching a problem. Among the lines he followed in this particular investigation were, first, that refraction depends only on the angle of incidence, which, he says, cannot be correct as it would thus be the same for all refracting substances; next, that it depended also on the density of the medium. This was a good shot, but he unfortunately assumed that all rays passing into a denser medium would apparently penetrate it to a depth depending only on the medium, which means that there is a constant ratio between the tangents, instead of the sines, of the inclination of the incident and refracted rays to the normal. Experiment proved that this gave too high values for refraction near the vertical compared with those near the horizon, so Kepler \"went off at a tangent\" and tried a totally new set of ideas, which all reduced to the absurdity of a refraction which vanished at the horizon. These were followed by another set, involving either a constant amount of refraction or one becoming infinite. He then came to the conclusion that these geometrical methods must fail because the refracted image is not real, and determined to try by analogy only, comparing the equally unreal image formed by a mirror with that formed by refraction in water. He noticed how the bottom of a vessel containing water appears to rise more and more away from the vertical, and at once jumped to the analogy of a concave mirror, which magnifies the image, while a convex mirror was likened to a rarer medium. This line of attack also failed him, as did various attempts to find relations between his measurements of refraction and conic sections, and he broke off suddenly with a diatribe against Tycho's critics, whom he likened to blind men disputing about colours. Not many years later Snell discovered the true law of refraction, but Kepler's contribution to the subject, though he failed to discover the actual law, includes several of the adopted \"by-laws\". He noted that atmospheric refraction would alter with the height of the atmosphere and with temperature, and also recognised the fact that rainbow colours depend on the angle of refraction, whether seen in the rainbow itself, or in dew, glass, water, or any similar medium. He thus came near to anticipating Newton. Before leaving the subject of Kepler's optics it will be well to recall that a few years later after hearing of Galileo's telescope, Kepler suggested that for astronomical purposes two convex lenses should be used, so that there should be a real image where measuring wires could be placed for reference. He did not carry out the idea himself, and it was left to the Englishman Gascoigne to produce the first instrument on this \"Keplerian\" principle, universally known as the Astronomical Telescope.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In 1606, Kepler published a treatise on a new star, exploring theories about its origin and rejecting the idea of randomness. The following year, he delved into comets, considering them as planets moving in straight lines and not having studied their paths in detail. Kepler's belief that planets must emit light was tested using Galileo's telescope. In 1607, he hastily reported an observation of Mercury crossing the sun, later retracting it upon learning about sunspots through Galileo, showing his openness to new discoveries.","original_text":"In 1606 came a second treatise on the new star, discussing various theories to account for its appearance, and refusing to accept the notion that it was a \"fortuitous concourse of atoms\". This was followed in 1607 by a treatise on comets, suggested by the comet appearing that year, known as Halley's comet after its next return. He regarded comets as \"planets\" moving in straight lines, never having examined sufficient observations of any comet to convince himself that their paths are curved. If he had not assumed that they were external to the system and so could not be expected to return, he might have anticipated Halley's discovery. Another suggestive remark of his was to the effect that the planets must be self-luminous, as otherwise Mercury and Venus, at any rate, ought to show phases. This was put to the test not long afterwards by means of Galileo's telescope.\nIn 1607 Kepler rushed into print with an alleged observation of Mercury crossing the sun, but after Galileo's discovery of sun-spots, Kepler at once cheerfully retracted his observation of \"Mercury,\" and so far was he from being annoyed or bigoted in his views, that he warmly adopted Galileo's side, in contrast to most of those whose opinions were liable to be overthrown by the new discoveries. Maestlin and others of Kepler's friends took the opposite view.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Kepler's engagements with celestial phenomena in 1606 and 1607, highlighting his investigations into the new star, comets, and his interactions with Galileo's discoveries. It provides a clear and concise overview of Kepler's scientific pursuits during these years, showcasing his willingness to adapt his views in light of new evidence and his alignment with Galileo's advancements.","original_text":"In 1606 came a second treatise on the new star, discussing various theories to account for its appearance, and refusing to accept the notion that it was a \"fortuitous concourse of atoms\". This was followed in 1607 by a treatise on comets, suggested by the comet appearing that year, known as Halley's comet after its next return. He regarded comets as \"planets\" moving in straight lines, never having examined sufficient observations of any comet to convince himself that their paths are curved. If he had not assumed that they were external to the system and so could not be expected to return, he might have anticipated Halley's discovery. Another suggestive remark of his was to the effect that the planets must be self-luminous, as otherwise Mercury and Venus, at any rate, ought to show phases. This was put to the test not long afterwards by means of Galileo's telescope.\nIn 1607 Kepler rushed into print with an alleged observation of Mercury crossing the sun, but after Galileo's discovery of sun-spots, Kepler at once cheerfully retracted his observation of \"Mercury,\" and so far was he from being annoyed or bigoted in his views, that he warmly adopted Galileo's side, in contrast to most of those whose opinions were liable to be overthrown by the new discoveries. Maestlin and others of Kepler's friends took the opposite view.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In 1606, Kepler wrote a treatise on a new star, exploring theories about its origin and dismissing the idea of randomness. The following year, he delved into comets, considering them as 'planets' moving linearly, lacking sufficient data to confirm their curved paths. Had he not assumed comets to be external to the system, he might have predicted Halley's comet. Kepler also speculated on the self-luminosity of planets, reasoning that Mercury and Venus should exhibit phases if not luminous. He hastily published an observation of Mercury crossing the sun in 1607, retracting it upon learning of sunspots through Galileo's telescope, aligning with Galileo's discoveries despite opposition from his peers.","original_text":"In 1606 came a second treatise on the new star, discussing various theories to account for its appearance, and refusing to accept the notion that it was a \"fortuitous concourse of atoms\". This was followed in 1607 by a treatise on comets, suggested by the comet appearing that year, known as Halley's comet after its next return. He regarded comets as \"planets\" moving in straight lines, never having examined sufficient observations of any comet to convince himself that their paths are curved. If he had not assumed that they were external to the system and so could not be expected to return, he might have anticipated Halley's discovery. Another suggestive remark of his was to the effect that the planets must be self-luminous, as otherwise Mercury and Venus, at any rate, ought to show phases. This was put to the test not long afterwards by means of Galileo's telescope.\nIn 1607 Kepler rushed into print with an alleged observation of Mercury crossing the sun, but after Galileo's discovery of sun-spots, Kepler at once cheerfully retracted his observation of \"Mercury,\" and so far was he from being annoyed or bigoted in his views, that he warmly adopted Galileo's side, in contrast to most of those whose opinions were liable to be overthrown by the new discoveries. Maestlin and others of Kepler's friends took the opposite view.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's writings in 1606 and 1607. In 1606, Kepler wrote about a new star, rejecting the idea of it being a random event and delving into theories explaining its appearance. In 1607, he explored comets, viewing them as \"planets\" moving in straight lines due to insufficient observations to confirm their curved paths. He speculated that planets must emit light, as proven later by Galileo's telescope. Additionally, in 1607, Kepler published an observation of Mercury crossing the sun, retracting it after Galileo's sun-spot discovery. Kepler's open-mindedness is highlighted as he embraced Galileo's findings, contrary to his peers.","original_text":"In 1606 came a second treatise on the new star, discussing various theories to account for its appearance, and refusing to accept the notion that it was a \"fortuitous concourse of atoms\". This was followed in 1607 by a treatise on comets, suggested by the comet appearing that year, known as Halley's comet after its next return. He regarded comets as \"planets\" moving in straight lines, never having examined sufficient observations of any comet to convince himself that their paths are curved. If he had not assumed that they were external to the system and so could not be expected to return, he might have anticipated Halley's discovery. Another suggestive remark of his was to the effect that the planets must be self-luminous, as otherwise Mercury and Venus, at any rate, ought to show phases. This was put to the test not long afterwards by means of Galileo's telescope.\nIn 1607 Kepler rushed into print with an alleged observation of Mercury crossing the sun, but after Galileo's discovery of sun-spots, Kepler at once cheerfully retracted his observation of \"Mercury,\" and so far was he from being annoyed or bigoted in his views, that he warmly adopted Galileo's side, in contrast to most of those whose opinions were liable to be overthrown by the new discoveries. Maestlin and others of Kepler's friends took the opposite view.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Chapter IV of Walter W. Bryant's book on Kepler delves into the pivotal collaboration between Johannes Kepler and Tycho Brahe, marking a significant period in the advancement of astronomy. This partnership was characterized by a blend of mutual benefit and personal challenges, with Kepler seeking to refine his speculative theories through Tycho's precise planetary observations, and Tycho, having lost some prestige after leaving Denmark, in need of skilled assistants. Despite initial reservations and misunderstandings, Tycho welcomed Kepler warmly to Prague, promising support and ultimately securing for him the title of Imperial Mathematician from the Emperor, who was more interested in astrology but recognized the importance of their astronomical work.\n\nKepler's tenure in Prague was not without its difficulties, including financial strains exacerbated by his growing family and the delayed payment of his salary due to the depleted state of the Imperial treasury. These challenges forced Kepler to engage in less financially demanding work, including casting nativities, which, despite his skepticism of conventional astrology, provided a steady income. His work during this period also included significant contributions to optics, particularly in dioptrics, and the publication of treatises on the new star in Cassiopeia and comets, showcasing his innovative thinking and willingness to revise his theories in light of new evidence.\n\nThe chapter highlights Kepler's intellectual rigor and openness to new ideas, as evidenced by his enthusiastic adoption of Galileo's discoveries, which contrasted with the skepticism of some contemporaries. Despite the personal and professional obstacles he faced, Kepler's work laid foundational stones for future astronomical discoveries, demonstrating his critical role in the transition from speculative to empirical science in the field of astronomy. Bryant's narrative captures the essence of Kepler's journey, marked by his relentless pursuit of knowledge, his contributions to the scientific method, and his complex relationship with Tycho Brahe, which, despite its challenges, proved to be immensely fruitful for the advancement of astronomy.","original_text":"The association of Kepler with Tycho was one of the most important landmarks in the history of astronomy. The younger man hoped, by the aid of Tycho's planetary observations, to obtain better support for some of his fanciful speculative theories, while the latter, who had certainly not gained in prestige by leaving Denmark, was in great need of a competent staff of assistants. Of the two it would almost seem that Tycho thought himself the greater gainer, for in spite of his reputation for brusqueness and want of consideration, he not only made light of Kepler's apology in the matter of Reymers, but treated him with uniform kindness in the face of great rudeness and ingratitude. He begged him to come \"as a welcome friend,\" though Kepler, very touchy on the subject of his own astronomical powers, was afraid he might be regarded as simply a subordinate assistant. An arrangement had been suggested by which Kepler should obtain two years' leave of absence from Gratz on full pay, which, because of the higher cost of living in Prague, should be supplemented by the Emperor; but before this could be concluded, Kepler threw up his professorship, and thinking he had thereby also lost the chance of going to Prague, applied to Maestlin and others of his Tbingen friends to make interest for him with the Duke of Wurtemberg and secure the professorship of medicine. Tycho, however, still urged him to come to Prague, promising to do his utmost to secure for him a permanent appointment, or in any event to see that he was not the loser by coming. Kepler was delayed by illness on the way, but ultimately reached Prague, accompanied by his wife, and for some time lived entirely at Tycho's expense, writing by way of return essays against Reymers and another man, who had claimed the credit of the Tychonic system. This Kepler could do with a clear conscience, as it was only a question of priority and did not involve any support of the system, which he deemed far inferior to that of Copernicus. The following year saw friction between the two astronomers, and we learn from Kepler's abject letter of apology that he was entirely in the wrong. It was about money matters, which in one way or another embittered the rest of Kepler's life, and it arose during his absence from Prague. On his return in September, 1601, Tycho presented him to the Emperor, who gave him the title of Imperial Mathematician, on condition of assisting Tycho in his calculations, the very thing Kepler was most anxious to be allowed to do: for nowhere else in the world was there such a collection of good observations sufficient for his purpose of reforming the whole theory of astronomy. The Emperor's interest was still mainly with astrology, but he liked to think that his name would be handed down to posterity in connection with the new Planetary Tables in the same way as that of Alphonso of Castile, and he made liberal promises to pay the expenses. Tycho's other principal assistant, Longomontanus, did not stay long after giving up the Mars observations to Kepler, but instead of working at the new lunar theory, suddenly left to take up a professorship of astronomy in his native Denmark. Very shortly afterwards Tycho himself died of acute distemper; Kepler began to prepare the mass of manuscripts for publication, but, as everything was claimed by the Brahe family, he was not allowed to finish the work. He succeeded to Tycho's post of principal mathematician to the Emperor, at a reduced official salary, which owing to the emptiness of the Imperial treasury was almost always in arrear. In order to meet his expenses he had recourse to the casting of nativities, for which he gained considerable reputation and received very good pay. He worked by the conventional rules of astrology, and was quite prepared to take fees for so doing, although he had very little faith in them, preferring his own fanciful ideas.\n\nIn 1604 the constellation of Cassiopeia was once more temporarily enriched by the appearance of a new star, said by some to be brighter than Tycho's nova, and by others to be twice as bright as Jupiter. Kepler at once wrote a short account of it, from which may be gathered some idea of his attitude towards astrology. Contrasting the two novae, he says: \"Yonder one chose for its appearance a time no way remarkable, and came into the world quite unexpectedly, like an enemy storming a town and breaking into the market-place before the citizens are aware of his approach; but ours has come exactly in the year of which astrologers have written so much about the fiery trigon that happens in it; just in the month in which (according to Cyprian), Mars comes up to a very perfect conjunction with the other two superior planets; just in the day when Mars has joined Jupiter, and just in the region where this conjunction has taken place. Therefore the apparition of this star is not like a secret hostile irruption, as was that one of 1572, but the spectacle of a public triumph, or the entry of a mighty potentate; when the couriers ride in some time before to prepare his lodgings, and the crowd of young urchins begin to think the time over long to wait, then roll in, one after another, the ammunition and money, and baggage waggons, and presently the trampling of horse and the rush of people from every side to the streets and windows; and when the crowd have gazed with their jaws all agape at the troops of knights; then at last the trumpeters and archers and lackeys so distinguish the person of the monarch, that there is no occasion to point him out, but every one cries of his own accord--'Here we have him'. What it may portend is hard to determine, and this much only is certain, that it comes to tell mankind either nothing at all or high and mighty news, quite beyond human sense and understanding. It will have an important influence on political and social relations; not indeed by its own nature, but as it were accidentally through the disposition of mankind. First, it portends to the booksellers great disturbances and tolerable gains; for almost every _Theologus_, _Philosophicus_, _Medicus_, and _Mathematicus_, or whoever else, having no laborious occupation entrusted to him, seeks his pleasure _in studiis_, will make particular remarks upon it, and will wish to bring these remarks to the light. Just so will others, learned and unlearned, wish to know its meaning, and they will buy the authors who profess to tell them. I mention these things merely by way of example, because although thus much can be easily predicted without great skill, yet may it happen just as easily, and in the same manner, that the vulgar, or whoever else is of easy faith, or, it may be, crazy, may wish to exalt himself into a great prophet; or it may even happen that some powerful lord, who has good foundation and beginning of great dignities, will be cheered on by this phenomenon to venture on some new scheme, just as if God had set up this star in the darkness merely to enlighten them.\" He made no secret of his views on conventional astrology, as to which he claimed to speak with the authority of one fully conversant with its principles, but he nevertheless expressed his sincere conviction that the conjunctions and aspects of the planets certainly did affect things on the earth, maintaining that he was driven to this belief against his will by \"most unfailing experiences\".\n\nMeanwhile the projected Rudolphine Tables were continually delayed by the want of money. Kepler's nominal salary should have been ample for his expenses, increased though they were by his growing family, but in the depleted state of the treasury there were many who objected to any payment for such \"unpractical\" purposes. This particular attitude has not been confined to any special epoch or country, but the obvious result in Kepler's case was to compel him to apply himself to less expensive matters than the Planetary Tables, and among these must be included not only the horoscopes or nativities, which owing to his reputation were always in demand, but also other writings which probably did not pay so well. In 1604 he published \"A Supplement to Vitellion,\" containing the earliest known reasonable theory of optics, and especially of dioptrics or vision through lenses. He compared the mechanism of the eye with that of Porta's \"Camera Obscura,\" but made no attempt to explain how the image formed on the retina is understood by the brain. He went carefully into the question of refraction, the importance of which Tycho had been the first astronomer to recognise, though he only applied it at low altitudes, and had not arrived at a true theory or accurate values. Kepler wasted a good deal of time and ingenuity on trial theories. He would invariably start with some hypothesis, and work out the effect. He would then test it by experiment, and when it failed would at once recognise that his hypothesis was _a priori_ bound to fail. He rarely seems to have noticed the fatal objections in time to save himself trouble. He would then at once start again on a new hypothesis, equally gratuitous and equally unfounded. It never seems to have occurred to him that there might be a better way of approaching a problem. Among the lines he followed in this particular investigation were, first, that refraction depends only on the angle of incidence, which, he says, cannot be correct as it would thus be the same for all refracting substances; next, that it depended also on the density of the medium. This was a good shot, but he unfortunately assumed that all rays passing into a denser medium would apparently penetrate it to a depth depending only on the medium, which means that there is a constant ratio between the tangents, instead of the sines, of the inclination of the incident and refracted rays to the normal. Experiment proved that this gave too high values for refraction near the vertical compared with those near the horizon, so Kepler \"went off at a tangent\" and tried a totally new set of ideas, which all reduced to the absurdity of a refraction which vanished at the horizon. These were followed by another set, involving either a constant amount of refraction or one becoming infinite. He then came to the conclusion that these geometrical methods must fail because the refracted image is not real, and determined to try by analogy only, comparing the equally unreal image formed by a mirror with that formed by refraction in water. He noticed how the bottom of a vessel containing water appears to rise more and more away from the vertical, and at once jumped to the analogy of a concave mirror, which magnifies the image, while a convex mirror was likened to a rarer medium. This line of attack also failed him, as did various attempts to find relations between his measurements of refraction and conic sections, and he broke off suddenly with a diatribe against Tycho's critics, whom he likened to blind men disputing about colours. Not many years later Snell discovered the true law of refraction, but Kepler's contribution to the subject, though he failed to discover the actual law, includes several of the adopted \"by-laws\". He noted that atmospheric refraction would alter with the height of the atmosphere and with temperature, and also recognised the fact that rainbow colours depend on the angle of refraction, whether seen in the rainbow itself, or in dew, glass, water, or any similar medium. He thus came near to anticipating Newton. Before leaving the subject of Kepler's optics it will be well to recall that a few years later after hearing of Galileo's telescope, Kepler suggested that for astronomical purposes two convex lenses should be used, so that there should be a real image where measuring wires could be placed for reference. He did not carry out the idea himself, and it was left to the Englishman Gascoigne to produce the first instrument on this \"Keplerian\" principle, universally known as the Astronomical Telescope.\n\nIn 1606 came a second treatise on the new star, discussing various theories to account for its appearance, and refusing to accept the notion that it was a \"fortuitous concourse of atoms\". This was followed in 1607 by a treatise on comets, suggested by the comet appearing that year, known as Halley's comet after its next return. He regarded comets as \"planets\" moving in straight lines, never having examined sufficient observations of any comet to convince himself that their paths are curved. If he had not assumed that they were external to the system and so could not be expected to return, he might have anticipated Halley's discovery. Another suggestive remark of his was to the effect that the planets must be self-luminous, as otherwise Mercury and Venus, at any rate, ought to show phases. This was put to the test not long afterwards by means of Galileo's telescope.\nIn 1607 Kepler rushed into print with an alleged observation of Mercury crossing the sun, but after Galileo's discovery of sun-spots, Kepler at once cheerfully retracted his observation of \"Mercury,\" and so far was he from being annoyed or bigoted in his views, that he warmly adopted Galileo's side, in contrast to most of those whose opinions were liable to be overthrown by the new discoveries. Maestlin and others of Kepler's friends took the opposite view.","categories":["Astronomy History :: The text discusses the historical context and relationships between famous astronomers.","Scientific Method :: Description of Kepler's approach to scientific inquiry","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific Discoveries :: Breakthroughs in science","Astronomy and Astrology :: Study of celestial objects and their influence on human affairs","Professional Relationships :: Describes the interactions and collaborations between individuals in a professional setting.","Historical Events :: Events that occurred in the past","Astronomy and Optics :: Description of Kepler's work in astronomy and optics"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER IV.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chapter"},
{"summary":"The paragraph delves into Gilbert of Colchester's theory on tides, attributing them to subterranean forces influenced by the moon rather than direct lunar attraction. This indirect approach to explanation was favored over direct statements. Kepler, influenced by Gilbert, applied a similar method in connecting magnetic attraction to planetary movements. Kepler criticized the idea of gravity opposing Earth's rotation and the old planetary motion theories, presenting his own theory.","original_text":"When Gilbert of Colchester, in his \"New Philosophy,\" founded on his researches in magnetism, was dealing with tides, he did not suggest that the moon attracted the water, but that \"subterranean spirits and humours, rising in sympathy with the moon, cause the sea also to rise and flow to the shores and up rivers\". It appears that an idea, presented in some such way as this, was more readily received than a plain statement. This so-called philosophical method was, in fact, very generally applied, and Kepler, who shared Galileo's admiration for Gilbert's work, adopted it in his own attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets. The general idea of \"gravity\" opposed the hypothesis of the rotation of the earth on the ground that loose objects would fly off: moreover, the latest refinements of the old system of planetary motions necessitated their orbits being described about a mere empty point. Kepler very strongly combated these notions, pointing out the absurdity of the conclusions to which they tended, and proceeded in set terms to describe his own theory.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph delves into Gilbert of Colchester's theory on tides, attributing them to subterranean spirits and humours influenced by the moon rather than direct lunar attraction. This indirect presentation method was favored over straightforward statements. Kepler, inspired by Gilbert, applied a similar approach in linking magnetic attraction to planetary motion. Kepler refuted the idea of gravity opposing Earth's rotation and criticized the old planetary motion model, advocating for his own theory.","original_text":"When Gilbert of Colchester, in his \"New Philosophy,\" founded on his researches in magnetism, was dealing with tides, he did not suggest that the moon attracted the water, but that \"subterranean spirits and humours, rising in sympathy with the moon, cause the sea also to rise and flow to the shores and up rivers\". It appears that an idea, presented in some such way as this, was more readily received than a plain statement. This so-called philosophical method was, in fact, very generally applied, and Kepler, who shared Galileo's admiration for Gilbert's work, adopted it in his own attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets. The general idea of \"gravity\" opposed the hypothesis of the rotation of the earth on the ground that loose objects would fly off: moreover, the latest refinements of the old system of planetary motions necessitated their orbits being described about a mere empty point. Kepler very strongly combated these notions, pointing out the absurdity of the conclusions to which they tended, and proceeded in set terms to describe his own theory.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary captures the key points of the paragraph, highlighting Gilbert of Colchester's and Kepler's methods of presenting scientific ideas and their contributions to understanding planetary movements. It provides a detailed overview of the text, covering the main themes and transitions effectively.","original_text":"When Gilbert of Colchester, in his \"New Philosophy,\" founded on his researches in magnetism, was dealing with tides, he did not suggest that the moon attracted the water, but that \"subterranean spirits and humours, rising in sympathy with the moon, cause the sea also to rise and flow to the shores and up rivers\". It appears that an idea, presented in some such way as this, was more readily received than a plain statement. This so-called philosophical method was, in fact, very generally applied, and Kepler, who shared Galileo's admiration for Gilbert's work, adopted it in his own attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets. The general idea of \"gravity\" opposed the hypothesis of the rotation of the earth on the ground that loose objects would fly off: moreover, the latest refinements of the old system of planetary motions necessitated their orbits being described about a mere empty point. Kepler very strongly combated these notions, pointing out the absurdity of the conclusions to which they tended, and proceeded in set terms to describe his own theory.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler\" discusses the influence of Gilbert of Colchester's \"New Philosophy\" on the understanding of tides. Gilbert attributed the rising of tides to \"subterranean spirits and humours\" rather than direct lunar attraction. This indirect explanation was more palatable to the audience compared to a straightforward statement. Kepler, inspired by Gilbert's work, applied a similar method in his attempt to expand the concept of magnetic attraction to planetary bodies. Kepler challenged the prevailing idea of \"gravity\" that opposed the Earth's rotation by highlighting the flaws in the existing model of planetary motion. He vehemently argued against the notion that loose objects would fly off the rotating Earth and criticized the idea of planetary orbits being described around an empty point. Kepler then presented his own theory as a response to these flawed concepts.","original_text":"When Gilbert of Colchester, in his \"New Philosophy,\" founded on his researches in magnetism, was dealing with tides, he did not suggest that the moon attracted the water, but that \"subterranean spirits and humours, rising in sympathy with the moon, cause the sea also to rise and flow to the shores and up rivers\". It appears that an idea, presented in some such way as this, was more readily received than a plain statement. This so-called philosophical method was, in fact, very generally applied, and Kepler, who shared Galileo's admiration for Gilbert's work, adopted it in his own attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets. The general idea of \"gravity\" opposed the hypothesis of the rotation of the earth on the ground that loose objects would fly off: moreover, the latest refinements of the old system of planetary motions necessitated their orbits being described about a mere empty point. Kepler very strongly combated these notions, pointing out the absurdity of the conclusions to which they tended, and proceeded in set terms to describe his own theory.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the discussion on gravity, mutual attraction between bodies, interactions in space, and references to Kepler's work, presenting a detailed overview of the paragraph.","original_text":"\"Every corporeal substance, so far forth as it is corporeal, has a natural fitness for resting in every place where it may be situated by itself beyond the sphere of influence of a body cognate with it. Gravity is a mutual affection between cognate bodies towards union or conjunction (similar in kind to the magnetic virtue), so that the earth attracts a stone much rather than the stone seeks the earth. Heavy bodies (if we begin by assuming the earth to be in the centre of the world) are not carried to the centre of the world in its quality of centre of the world, but as to the centre of a cognate round body, namely, the earth; so that wheresoever the earth may be placed, or whithersoever it may be carried by its animal faculty, heavy bodies will always be carried towards it. If the earth were not round, heavy bodies would not tend from every side in a straight line towards the centre of the earth, but to different points from different sides. If two stones were placed in any part of the world near each other, and beyond the sphere of influence of a third cognate body, these stones, like two magnetic needles, would come together in the intermediate point, each approaching the other by a space proportional to the comparative mass of the other. If the moon and earth were not retained in their orbits by their animal force or some other equivalent, the earth would mount to the moon by a fifty-fourth part of their distance, and the moon fall towards the earth through the other fifty-three parts, and they would there meet, assuming, however, that the substance of both is of the same density. If the earth should cease to attract its waters to itself all the waters of the sea would he raised and would flow to the body of the moon. The sphere of the attractive virtue which is in the moon extends as far as the earth, and entices up the waters; but as the moon flies rapidly across the zenith, and the waters cannot follow so quickly, a flow of the ocean is occasioned in the torrid zone towards the westward. If the attractive virtue of the moon extends as far as the earth, it follows with greater reason that the attractive virtue of the earth extends as far as the moon and much farther; and, in short, nothing which consists of earthly substance anyhow constituted although thrown up to any height, can ever escape the powerful operation of this attractive virtue. Nothing which consists of corporeal matter is absolutely light, but that is comparatively lighter which is rarer, either by its own nature, or by accidental heat. And it is not to be thought that light bodies are escaping to the surface of the universe while they are carried upwards, or that they are not attracted by the earth. They are attracted, but in a less degree, and so are driven outwards by the heavy bodies; which being done, they stop, and are kept by the earth in their own place. But although the attractive virtue of the earth extends upwards, as has been said, so very far, yet if any stone should be at a distance great enough to become sensible compared with the earth's diameter, it is true that on the motion of the earth such a stone would not follow altogether; its own force of resistance would be combined with the attractive force of the earth, and thus it would extricate itself in some degree from the motion of the earth.\" The above passage from the Introduction to Kepler's \"Commentaries on the Motion of Mars,\" always regarded as his most valuable work, must have been known to Newton, so that no such incident as the fall of an apple was required to provide a necessary and sufficient explanation of the genesis of his Theory of Universal Gravitation. Kepler's glimpse at such a theory could have been no more than a glimpse, for he went no further with it. This seems a pity, as it is far less fanciful than many of his ideas, though not free from the \"virtues\" and \"animal faculties,\" that correspond to Gilbert's \"spirits and humours\". We must, however, proceed to the subject of Mars, which was, as before noted, the first important investigation entrusted to Kepler on his arrival at Prague.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Kepler's detailed explanation of gravity as a mutual attraction between bodies, illustrating how heavy objects are drawn towards the Earth and discussing the gravitational interaction between celestial bodies like the Moon and Earth.","original_text":"\"Every corporeal substance, so far forth as it is corporeal, has a natural fitness for resting in every place where it may be situated by itself beyond the sphere of influence of a body cognate with it. Gravity is a mutual affection between cognate bodies towards union or conjunction (similar in kind to the magnetic virtue), so that the earth attracts a stone much rather than the stone seeks the earth. Heavy bodies (if we begin by assuming the earth to be in the centre of the world) are not carried to the centre of the world in its quality of centre of the world, but as to the centre of a cognate round body, namely, the earth; so that wheresoever the earth may be placed, or whithersoever it may be carried by its animal faculty, heavy bodies will always be carried towards it. If the earth were not round, heavy bodies would not tend from every side in a straight line towards the centre of the earth, but to different points from different sides. If two stones were placed in any part of the world near each other, and beyond the sphere of influence of a third cognate body, these stones, like two magnetic needles, would come together in the intermediate point, each approaching the other by a space proportional to the comparative mass of the other. If the moon and earth were not retained in their orbits by their animal force or some other equivalent, the earth would mount to the moon by a fifty-fourth part of their distance, and the moon fall towards the earth through the other fifty-three parts, and they would there meet, assuming, however, that the substance of both is of the same density. If the earth should cease to attract its waters to itself all the waters of the sea would he raised and would flow to the body of the moon. The sphere of the attractive virtue which is in the moon extends as far as the earth, and entices up the waters; but as the moon flies rapidly across the zenith, and the waters cannot follow so quickly, a flow of the ocean is occasioned in the torrid zone towards the westward. If the attractive virtue of the moon extends as far as the earth, it follows with greater reason that the attractive virtue of the earth extends as far as the moon and much farther; and, in short, nothing which consists of earthly substance anyhow constituted although thrown up to any height, can ever escape the powerful operation of this attractive virtue. Nothing which consists of corporeal matter is absolutely light, but that is comparatively lighter which is rarer, either by its own nature, or by accidental heat. And it is not to be thought that light bodies are escaping to the surface of the universe while they are carried upwards, or that they are not attracted by the earth. They are attracted, but in a less degree, and so are driven outwards by the heavy bodies; which being done, they stop, and are kept by the earth in their own place. But although the attractive virtue of the earth extends upwards, as has been said, so very far, yet if any stone should be at a distance great enough to become sensible compared with the earth's diameter, it is true that on the motion of the earth such a stone would not follow altogether; its own force of resistance would be combined with the attractive force of the earth, and thus it would extricate itself in some degree from the motion of the earth.\" The above passage from the Introduction to Kepler's \"Commentaries on the Motion of Mars,\" always regarded as his most valuable work, must have been known to Newton, so that no such incident as the fall of an apple was required to provide a necessary and sufficient explanation of the genesis of his Theory of Universal Gravitation. Kepler's glimpse at such a theory could have been no more than a glimpse, for he went no further with it. This seems a pity, as it is far less fanciful than many of his ideas, though not free from the \"virtues\" and \"animal faculties,\" that correspond to Gilbert's \"spirits and humours\". We must, however, proceed to the subject of Mars, which was, as before noted, the first important investigation entrusted to Kepler on his arrival at Prague.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the paragraph's discussion on gravity, mutual attraction between bodies, and its implications on celestial and earthly interactions.","original_text":"\"Every corporeal substance, so far forth as it is corporeal, has a natural fitness for resting in every place where it may be situated by itself beyond the sphere of influence of a body cognate with it. Gravity is a mutual affection between cognate bodies towards union or conjunction (similar in kind to the magnetic virtue), so that the earth attracts a stone much rather than the stone seeks the earth. Heavy bodies (if we begin by assuming the earth to be in the centre of the world) are not carried to the centre of the world in its quality of centre of the world, but as to the centre of a cognate round body, namely, the earth; so that wheresoever the earth may be placed, or whithersoever it may be carried by its animal faculty, heavy bodies will always be carried towards it. If the earth were not round, heavy bodies would not tend from every side in a straight line towards the centre of the earth, but to different points from different sides. If two stones were placed in any part of the world near each other, and beyond the sphere of influence of a third cognate body, these stones, like two magnetic needles, would come together in the intermediate point, each approaching the other by a space proportional to the comparative mass of the other. If the moon and earth were not retained in their orbits by their animal force or some other equivalent, the earth would mount to the moon by a fifty-fourth part of their distance, and the moon fall towards the earth through the other fifty-three parts, and they would there meet, assuming, however, that the substance of both is of the same density. If the earth should cease to attract its waters to itself all the waters of the sea would he raised and would flow to the body of the moon. The sphere of the attractive virtue which is in the moon extends as far as the earth, and entices up the waters; but as the moon flies rapidly across the zenith, and the waters cannot follow so quickly, a flow of the ocean is occasioned in the torrid zone towards the westward. If the attractive virtue of the moon extends as far as the earth, it follows with greater reason that the attractive virtue of the earth extends as far as the moon and much farther; and, in short, nothing which consists of earthly substance anyhow constituted although thrown up to any height, can ever escape the powerful operation of this attractive virtue. Nothing which consists of corporeal matter is absolutely light, but that is comparatively lighter which is rarer, either by its own nature, or by accidental heat. And it is not to be thought that light bodies are escaping to the surface of the universe while they are carried upwards, or that they are not attracted by the earth. They are attracted, but in a less degree, and so are driven outwards by the heavy bodies; which being done, they stop, and are kept by the earth in their own place. But although the attractive virtue of the earth extends upwards, as has been said, so very far, yet if any stone should be at a distance great enough to become sensible compared with the earth's diameter, it is true that on the motion of the earth such a stone would not follow altogether; its own force of resistance would be combined with the attractive force of the earth, and thus it would extricate itself in some degree from the motion of the earth.\" The above passage from the Introduction to Kepler's \"Commentaries on the Motion of Mars,\" always regarded as his most valuable work, must have been known to Newton, so that no such incident as the fall of an apple was required to provide a necessary and sufficient explanation of the genesis of his Theory of Universal Gravitation. Kepler's glimpse at such a theory could have been no more than a glimpse, for he went no further with it. This seems a pity, as it is far less fanciful than many of his ideas, though not free from the \"virtues\" and \"animal faculties,\" that correspond to Gilbert's \"spirits and humours\". We must, however, proceed to the subject of Mars, which was, as before noted, the first important investigation entrusted to Kepler on his arrival at Prague.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's views on gravity and the attraction between celestial bodies. Kepler posits that every corporeal substance has a natural tendency to rest where it is beyond the influence of another body similar to it. He compares gravity to a mutual affection between bodies, akin to magnetic attraction, where the earth attracts a stone more than the stone seeks the earth. Kepler explains that heavy bodies are drawn towards the center of the earth due to their affinity with the earth, rather than the earth's position as the center of the world. He further elaborates on how bodies would interact in the absence of gravitational forces, illustrating scenarios involving stones, the moon, and the earth's waters. Kepler's insights on gravity, although not fully developed into Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation, provide a foundation for understanding the attractive forces between celestial bodies.","original_text":"\"Every corporeal substance, so far forth as it is corporeal, has a natural fitness for resting in every place where it may be situated by itself beyond the sphere of influence of a body cognate with it. Gravity is a mutual affection between cognate bodies towards union or conjunction (similar in kind to the magnetic virtue), so that the earth attracts a stone much rather than the stone seeks the earth. Heavy bodies (if we begin by assuming the earth to be in the centre of the world) are not carried to the centre of the world in its quality of centre of the world, but as to the centre of a cognate round body, namely, the earth; so that wheresoever the earth may be placed, or whithersoever it may be carried by its animal faculty, heavy bodies will always be carried towards it. If the earth were not round, heavy bodies would not tend from every side in a straight line towards the centre of the earth, but to different points from different sides. If two stones were placed in any part of the world near each other, and beyond the sphere of influence of a third cognate body, these stones, like two magnetic needles, would come together in the intermediate point, each approaching the other by a space proportional to the comparative mass of the other. If the moon and earth were not retained in their orbits by their animal force or some other equivalent, the earth would mount to the moon by a fifty-fourth part of their distance, and the moon fall towards the earth through the other fifty-three parts, and they would there meet, assuming, however, that the substance of both is of the same density. If the earth should cease to attract its waters to itself all the waters of the sea would he raised and would flow to the body of the moon. The sphere of the attractive virtue which is in the moon extends as far as the earth, and entices up the waters; but as the moon flies rapidly across the zenith, and the waters cannot follow so quickly, a flow of the ocean is occasioned in the torrid zone towards the westward. If the attractive virtue of the moon extends as far as the earth, it follows with greater reason that the attractive virtue of the earth extends as far as the moon and much farther; and, in short, nothing which consists of earthly substance anyhow constituted although thrown up to any height, can ever escape the powerful operation of this attractive virtue. Nothing which consists of corporeal matter is absolutely light, but that is comparatively lighter which is rarer, either by its own nature, or by accidental heat. And it is not to be thought that light bodies are escaping to the surface of the universe while they are carried upwards, or that they are not attracted by the earth. They are attracted, but in a less degree, and so are driven outwards by the heavy bodies; which being done, they stop, and are kept by the earth in their own place. But although the attractive virtue of the earth extends upwards, as has been said, so very far, yet if any stone should be at a distance great enough to become sensible compared with the earth's diameter, it is true that on the motion of the earth such a stone would not follow altogether; its own force of resistance would be combined with the attractive force of the earth, and thus it would extricate itself in some degree from the motion of the earth.\" The above passage from the Introduction to Kepler's \"Commentaries on the Motion of Mars,\" always regarded as his most valuable work, must have been known to Newton, so that no such incident as the fall of an apple was required to provide a necessary and sufficient explanation of the genesis of his Theory of Universal Gravitation. Kepler's glimpse at such a theory could have been no more than a glimpse, for he went no further with it. This seems a pity, as it is far less fanciful than many of his ideas, though not free from the \"virtues\" and \"animal faculties,\" that correspond to Gilbert's \"spirits and humours\". We must, however, proceed to the subject of Mars, which was, as before noted, the first important investigation entrusted to Kepler on his arrival at Prague.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the unequal time intervals between Mars oppositions, leading to the need for multiple oppositions to determine the mean motion. Ancient astronomers used oppositions to calculate mean motion but had to correct for the 'second inequality.' Kepler, upon his arrival, aimed to improve calculations by using true oppositions, facing resistance from Tycho. Kepler demonstrated that adjusting the equant could fit longitudes accurately but led to incorrect latitudes and second inequalities. He recalculated parallax and orbit parameters, finding the orbit's plane passed through the sun. Despite significant recalculations, discrepancies remained, prompting Kepler to adopt Ptolemy's principle of the bisection of the excentricity for simplification.","original_text":"The time taken from one opposition of Mars to the next is decidedly unequal at different parts of his orbit, so that many oppositions must be used to determine the mean motion. The ancients had noticed that what was called the \"second inequality,\" due as we now know to the orbital motion of the earth, only vanished when earth, sun, and planet were in line, i.e. at the planet's opposition; therefore they used oppositions to determine the mean motion, but deemed it necessary to apply a correction to the true opposition to reduce to mean opposition, thus sacrificing part of the advantage of using oppositions. Tycho and Longomontanus had followed this method in their calculations from Tycho's twenty years' observations. Their aim was to find a position of the \"equant,\" such that these observations would show a constant angular motion about it; and that the computed positions would agree in latitude and longitude with the actual observed positions. When Kepler arrived he was told that their longitudes agreed within a couple of minutes of arc, but that something was wrong with the latitudes. He found, however, that even in longitude their positions showed discordances ten times as great as they admitted, and so, to clear the ground of assumptions as far as possible, he determined to use true oppositions. To this Tycho objected, and Kepler had great difficulty in convincing him that the new move would be any improvement, but undertook to prove to him by actual examples that a false position of the orbit could by adjusting the equant be made to fit the longitudes within five minutes of arc, while giving quite erroneous values of the latitudes and second inequalities. To avoid the possibility of further objection he carried out this demonstration separately for each of the systems of Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Tycho. For the new method he noticed that great accuracy was required in the reduction of the observed places of Mars to the ecliptic, and for this purpose the value obtained for the parallax by Tycho's assistants fell far short of the requisite accuracy. Kepler therefore was obliged to recompute the parallax from the original observations, as also the position of the line of nodes and the inclination of the orbit. The last he found to be constant, thus corroborating his theory that the plane of the orbit passed through the sun. He repeated his calculations no fewer than seventy times (and that before the invention of logarithms), and at length adopted values for the mean longitude and longitude of aphelion. He found no discordance greater than two minutes of arc in Tycho's observed longitudes in opposition, but the latitudes, and also longitudes in other parts of the orbit were much more discordant, and he found to his chagrin that four years' work was practically wasted. Before making a fresh start he looked for some simplification of the labour; and determined to adopt Ptolemy's assumption known as the principle of the bisection of the excentricity. Hitherto, since Ptolemy had given no reason for this assumption, Kepler had preferred not to make it, only taking for granted that the centre was at some point on the line called the excentricity (see Figs. 1, 2).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures the irregularity in Mars' oppositions, the historical methods used, Kepler's challenges, and his strategies to improve accuracy in calculations. It provides a clear overview of the scientific and observational complexities Kepler faced, leading to his decision to simplify his approach.","original_text":"The time taken from one opposition of Mars to the next is decidedly unequal at different parts of his orbit, so that many oppositions must be used to determine the mean motion. The ancients had noticed that what was called the \"second inequality,\" due as we now know to the orbital motion of the earth, only vanished when earth, sun, and planet were in line, i.e. at the planet's opposition; therefore they used oppositions to determine the mean motion, but deemed it necessary to apply a correction to the true opposition to reduce to mean opposition, thus sacrificing part of the advantage of using oppositions. Tycho and Longomontanus had followed this method in their calculations from Tycho's twenty years' observations. Their aim was to find a position of the \"equant,\" such that these observations would show a constant angular motion about it; and that the computed positions would agree in latitude and longitude with the actual observed positions. When Kepler arrived he was told that their longitudes agreed within a couple of minutes of arc, but that something was wrong with the latitudes. He found, however, that even in longitude their positions showed discordances ten times as great as they admitted, and so, to clear the ground of assumptions as far as possible, he determined to use true oppositions. To this Tycho objected, and Kepler had great difficulty in convincing him that the new move would be any improvement, but undertook to prove to him by actual examples that a false position of the orbit could by adjusting the equant be made to fit the longitudes within five minutes of arc, while giving quite erroneous values of the latitudes and second inequalities. To avoid the possibility of further objection he carried out this demonstration separately for each of the systems of Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Tycho. For the new method he noticed that great accuracy was required in the reduction of the observed places of Mars to the ecliptic, and for this purpose the value obtained for the parallax by Tycho's assistants fell far short of the requisite accuracy. Kepler therefore was obliged to recompute the parallax from the original observations, as also the position of the line of nodes and the inclination of the orbit. The last he found to be constant, thus corroborating his theory that the plane of the orbit passed through the sun. He repeated his calculations no fewer than seventy times (and that before the invention of logarithms), and at length adopted values for the mean longitude and longitude of aphelion. He found no discordance greater than two minutes of arc in Tycho's observed longitudes in opposition, but the latitudes, and also longitudes in other parts of the orbit were much more discordant, and he found to his chagrin that four years' work was practically wasted. Before making a fresh start he looked for some simplification of the labour; and determined to adopt Ptolemy's assumption known as the principle of the bisection of the excentricity. Hitherto, since Ptolemy had given no reason for this assumption, Kepler had preferred not to make it, only taking for granted that the centre was at some point on the line called the excentricity (see Figs. 1, 2).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the main ideas discussed in the paragraph, highlighting the irregularity of Mars opposition intervals, Kepler's departure from traditional methods, his recalculations, and the adoption of Ptolemy's principle for simplification.","original_text":"The time taken from one opposition of Mars to the next is decidedly unequal at different parts of his orbit, so that many oppositions must be used to determine the mean motion. The ancients had noticed that what was called the \"second inequality,\" due as we now know to the orbital motion of the earth, only vanished when earth, sun, and planet were in line, i.e. at the planet's opposition; therefore they used oppositions to determine the mean motion, but deemed it necessary to apply a correction to the true opposition to reduce to mean opposition, thus sacrificing part of the advantage of using oppositions. Tycho and Longomontanus had followed this method in their calculations from Tycho's twenty years' observations. Their aim was to find a position of the \"equant,\" such that these observations would show a constant angular motion about it; and that the computed positions would agree in latitude and longitude with the actual observed positions. When Kepler arrived he was told that their longitudes agreed within a couple of minutes of arc, but that something was wrong with the latitudes. He found, however, that even in longitude their positions showed discordances ten times as great as they admitted, and so, to clear the ground of assumptions as far as possible, he determined to use true oppositions. To this Tycho objected, and Kepler had great difficulty in convincing him that the new move would be any improvement, but undertook to prove to him by actual examples that a false position of the orbit could by adjusting the equant be made to fit the longitudes within five minutes of arc, while giving quite erroneous values of the latitudes and second inequalities. To avoid the possibility of further objection he carried out this demonstration separately for each of the systems of Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Tycho. For the new method he noticed that great accuracy was required in the reduction of the observed places of Mars to the ecliptic, and for this purpose the value obtained for the parallax by Tycho's assistants fell far short of the requisite accuracy. Kepler therefore was obliged to recompute the parallax from the original observations, as also the position of the line of nodes and the inclination of the orbit. The last he found to be constant, thus corroborating his theory that the plane of the orbit passed through the sun. He repeated his calculations no fewer than seventy times (and that before the invention of logarithms), and at length adopted values for the mean longitude and longitude of aphelion. He found no discordance greater than two minutes of arc in Tycho's observed longitudes in opposition, but the latitudes, and also longitudes in other parts of the orbit were much more discordant, and he found to his chagrin that four years' work was practically wasted. Before making a fresh start he looked for some simplification of the labour; and determined to adopt Ptolemy's assumption known as the principle of the bisection of the excentricity. Hitherto, since Ptolemy had given no reason for this assumption, Kepler had preferred not to make it, only taking for granted that the centre was at some point on the line called the excentricity (see Figs. 1, 2).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the challenges in determining the mean motion of Mars due to the unequal time taken from one opposition to the next along its orbit. It highlights the historical methods used by ancient astronomers, such as applying corrections to true oppositions to derive mean oppositions. Kepler, upon arriving at Prague, encountered discrepancies in the calculations of Tycho and Longomontanus, leading him to opt for true oppositions despite objections. Kepler's meticulous approach involved recalculating parallax values and orbit parameters, repeating calculations multiple times for accuracy. Despite initial setbacks, Kepler sought simplifications in his work, eventually adopting Ptolemy's principle of the bisection of the excentricity to streamline his calculations.","original_text":"The time taken from one opposition of Mars to the next is decidedly unequal at different parts of his orbit, so that many oppositions must be used to determine the mean motion. The ancients had noticed that what was called the \"second inequality,\" due as we now know to the orbital motion of the earth, only vanished when earth, sun, and planet were in line, i.e. at the planet's opposition; therefore they used oppositions to determine the mean motion, but deemed it necessary to apply a correction to the true opposition to reduce to mean opposition, thus sacrificing part of the advantage of using oppositions. Tycho and Longomontanus had followed this method in their calculations from Tycho's twenty years' observations. Their aim was to find a position of the \"equant,\" such that these observations would show a constant angular motion about it; and that the computed positions would agree in latitude and longitude with the actual observed positions. When Kepler arrived he was told that their longitudes agreed within a couple of minutes of arc, but that something was wrong with the latitudes. He found, however, that even in longitude their positions showed discordances ten times as great as they admitted, and so, to clear the ground of assumptions as far as possible, he determined to use true oppositions. To this Tycho objected, and Kepler had great difficulty in convincing him that the new move would be any improvement, but undertook to prove to him by actual examples that a false position of the orbit could by adjusting the equant be made to fit the longitudes within five minutes of arc, while giving quite erroneous values of the latitudes and second inequalities. To avoid the possibility of further objection he carried out this demonstration separately for each of the systems of Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Tycho. For the new method he noticed that great accuracy was required in the reduction of the observed places of Mars to the ecliptic, and for this purpose the value obtained for the parallax by Tycho's assistants fell far short of the requisite accuracy. Kepler therefore was obliged to recompute the parallax from the original observations, as also the position of the line of nodes and the inclination of the orbit. The last he found to be constant, thus corroborating his theory that the plane of the orbit passed through the sun. He repeated his calculations no fewer than seventy times (and that before the invention of logarithms), and at length adopted values for the mean longitude and longitude of aphelion. He found no discordance greater than two minutes of arc in Tycho's observed longitudes in opposition, but the latitudes, and also longitudes in other parts of the orbit were much more discordant, and he found to his chagrin that four years' work was practically wasted. Before making a fresh start he looked for some simplification of the labour; and determined to adopt Ptolemy's assumption known as the principle of the bisection of the excentricity. Hitherto, since Ptolemy had given no reason for this assumption, Kepler had preferred not to make it, only taking for granted that the centre was at some point on the line called the excentricity (see Figs. 1, 2).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Kepler's meticulous approach to resolving discrepancies in Mars' motion observations. It highlights his rejection of circular orbits, exploration of equants, and eventual discovery of the elliptical orbit's suitability. The summary conveys Kepler's methodical process and the significance of his findings in refining planetary theories.","original_text":"A marked improvement in residuals was the result of this step, proving, so far, the correctness of Ptolemy's principle, but there still remained discordances amounting to eight minutes of arc. Copernicus, who had no idea of the accuracy obtainable in observations, would probably have regarded such an agreement as remarkably good; but Kepler refused to admit the possibility of an error of eight minutes in any of Tycho's observations. He thereupon vowed to construct from these eight minutes a new planetary theory that should account for them all. His repeated failures had by this time convinced him that no uniformly described circle could possibly represent the motion of Mars. Either the orbit could not be circular, or else the angular velocity could not be constant about any point whatever. He determined to attack the \"second inequality,\" i.e. the optical illusion caused by the earth's annual motion, but first revived an old idea of his own that for the sake of uniformity the sun, or as he preferred to regard it, the earth, should have an equant as well as the planets. From the irregularities of the solar motion he soon found that this was the case, and that the motion was uniform about a point on the line from the sun to the centre of the earth's orbit, such that the centre bisected the distance from the sun to the \"Equant\"; this fully supported Ptolemy's principle. Clearly then the earth's linear velocity could not be constant, and Kepler was encouraged to revive another of his speculations as to a force which was weaker at greater distances. He found the velocity greater at the nearer apse, so that the time over an equal arc at either apse was proportional to the distance. He conjectured that this might prove to be true for arcs at all parts of the orbit, and to test this he divided the orbit into 360 equal parts, and calculated the distances to the points of division. Archimedes had obtained an approximation to the area of a circle by dividing it radially into a very large number of triangles, and Kepler had this device in mind. He found that the sums of successive distances from his 360 points were approximately proportional to the times from point to point, and was thus enabled to represent much more accurately the annual motion of the earth which produced the second inequality of Mars, to whose motion he now returned. Three points are sufficient to define a circle, so he took three observed positions of Mars and found a circle; he then took three other positions, but obtained a different circle, and a third set gave yet another. It thus began to appear that the orbit could not be a circle. He next tried to divide into 360 equal parts, as he had in the case of the earth, but the sums of distances failed to fit the times, and he realised that the sums of distances were not a good measure of the area of successive triangles. He noted, however, that the errors at the apses were now smaller than with a central circular orbit, and of the opposite sign, so he determined to try whether an oval orbit would fit better, following a suggestion made by Purbach in the case of Mercury, whose orbit is even more eccentric than that of Mars, though observations were too scanty to form the foundation of any theory. Kepler gave his fancy play in the choice of an oval, greater at one end than the other, endeavouring to satisfy some ideas about epicyclic motion, but could not find a satisfactory curve. He then had the fortunate idea of trying an ellipse with the same axis as his tentative oval. Mars now appeared too slow at the apses instead of too quick, so obviously some intermediate ellipse must be sought between the trial ellipse and the circle on the same axis. At this point the \"long arm of coincidence\" came into play. Half-way between the apses lay the mean distance, and at this position the error was half the distance between the ellipse and the circle, amounting to .00429 of a radius. With these figures in his mind, Kepler looked up the greatest optical inequality of Mars, the angle between the straight lines from Mars to the Sun and to the centre of the circle.[3] The secant of this angle was 1.00429, so that he noted that an ellipse reduced from the circle in the ratio of 1.00429 to 1 would fit the motion of Mars at the mean distance as well as the apses.\n[Footnote 3: This is clearly a maximum at AMC in Fig. 2, when its tangent AC/CM = the eccentricity.]","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed and coherent account of Kepler's transition from circular to elliptical orbits in explaining Mars' motion, showcasing his rejection of traditional ideas and his methodical approach to finding a more accurate model.","original_text":"A marked improvement in residuals was the result of this step, proving, so far, the correctness of Ptolemy's principle, but there still remained discordances amounting to eight minutes of arc. Copernicus, who had no idea of the accuracy obtainable in observations, would probably have regarded such an agreement as remarkably good; but Kepler refused to admit the possibility of an error of eight minutes in any of Tycho's observations. He thereupon vowed to construct from these eight minutes a new planetary theory that should account for them all. His repeated failures had by this time convinced him that no uniformly described circle could possibly represent the motion of Mars. Either the orbit could not be circular, or else the angular velocity could not be constant about any point whatever. He determined to attack the \"second inequality,\" i.e. the optical illusion caused by the earth's annual motion, but first revived an old idea of his own that for the sake of uniformity the sun, or as he preferred to regard it, the earth, should have an equant as well as the planets. From the irregularities of the solar motion he soon found that this was the case, and that the motion was uniform about a point on the line from the sun to the centre of the earth's orbit, such that the centre bisected the distance from the sun to the \"Equant\"; this fully supported Ptolemy's principle. Clearly then the earth's linear velocity could not be constant, and Kepler was encouraged to revive another of his speculations as to a force which was weaker at greater distances. He found the velocity greater at the nearer apse, so that the time over an equal arc at either apse was proportional to the distance. He conjectured that this might prove to be true for arcs at all parts of the orbit, and to test this he divided the orbit into 360 equal parts, and calculated the distances to the points of division. Archimedes had obtained an approximation to the area of a circle by dividing it radially into a very large number of triangles, and Kepler had this device in mind. He found that the sums of successive distances from his 360 points were approximately proportional to the times from point to point, and was thus enabled to represent much more accurately the annual motion of the earth which produced the second inequality of Mars, to whose motion he now returned. Three points are sufficient to define a circle, so he took three observed positions of Mars and found a circle; he then took three other positions, but obtained a different circle, and a third set gave yet another. It thus began to appear that the orbit could not be a circle. He next tried to divide into 360 equal parts, as he had in the case of the earth, but the sums of distances failed to fit the times, and he realised that the sums of distances were not a good measure of the area of successive triangles. He noted, however, that the errors at the apses were now smaller than with a central circular orbit, and of the opposite sign, so he determined to try whether an oval orbit would fit better, following a suggestion made by Purbach in the case of Mercury, whose orbit is even more eccentric than that of Mars, though observations were too scanty to form the foundation of any theory. Kepler gave his fancy play in the choice of an oval, greater at one end than the other, endeavouring to satisfy some ideas about epicyclic motion, but could not find a satisfactory curve. He then had the fortunate idea of trying an ellipse with the same axis as his tentative oval. Mars now appeared too slow at the apses instead of too quick, so obviously some intermediate ellipse must be sought between the trial ellipse and the circle on the same axis. At this point the \"long arm of coincidence\" came into play. Half-way between the apses lay the mean distance, and at this position the error was half the distance between the ellipse and the circle, amounting to .00429 of a radius. With these figures in his mind, Kepler looked up the greatest optical inequality of Mars, the angle between the straight lines from Mars to the Sun and to the centre of the circle.[3] The secant of this angle was 1.00429, so that he noted that an ellipse reduced from the circle in the ratio of 1.00429 to 1 would fit the motion of Mars at the mean distance as well as the apses.\n[Footnote 3: This is clearly a maximum at AMC in Fig. 2, when its tangent AC/CM = the eccentricity.]","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed account of Kepler's investigative process in addressing observational discrepancies regarding Mars' motion, highlighting his rejection of circular orbits, introduction of the equant concept, and adoption of an elliptical orbit to explain the anomalies.","original_text":"A marked improvement in residuals was the result of this step, proving, so far, the correctness of Ptolemy's principle, but there still remained discordances amounting to eight minutes of arc. Copernicus, who had no idea of the accuracy obtainable in observations, would probably have regarded such an agreement as remarkably good; but Kepler refused to admit the possibility of an error of eight minutes in any of Tycho's observations. He thereupon vowed to construct from these eight minutes a new planetary theory that should account for them all. His repeated failures had by this time convinced him that no uniformly described circle could possibly represent the motion of Mars. Either the orbit could not be circular, or else the angular velocity could not be constant about any point whatever. He determined to attack the \"second inequality,\" i.e. the optical illusion caused by the earth's annual motion, but first revived an old idea of his own that for the sake of uniformity the sun, or as he preferred to regard it, the earth, should have an equant as well as the planets. From the irregularities of the solar motion he soon found that this was the case, and that the motion was uniform about a point on the line from the sun to the centre of the earth's orbit, such that the centre bisected the distance from the sun to the \"Equant\"; this fully supported Ptolemy's principle. Clearly then the earth's linear velocity could not be constant, and Kepler was encouraged to revive another of his speculations as to a force which was weaker at greater distances. He found the velocity greater at the nearer apse, so that the time over an equal arc at either apse was proportional to the distance. He conjectured that this might prove to be true for arcs at all parts of the orbit, and to test this he divided the orbit into 360 equal parts, and calculated the distances to the points of division. Archimedes had obtained an approximation to the area of a circle by dividing it radially into a very large number of triangles, and Kepler had this device in mind. He found that the sums of successive distances from his 360 points were approximately proportional to the times from point to point, and was thus enabled to represent much more accurately the annual motion of the earth which produced the second inequality of Mars, to whose motion he now returned. Three points are sufficient to define a circle, so he took three observed positions of Mars and found a circle; he then took three other positions, but obtained a different circle, and a third set gave yet another. It thus began to appear that the orbit could not be a circle. He next tried to divide into 360 equal parts, as he had in the case of the earth, but the sums of distances failed to fit the times, and he realised that the sums of distances were not a good measure of the area of successive triangles. He noted, however, that the errors at the apses were now smaller than with a central circular orbit, and of the opposite sign, so he determined to try whether an oval orbit would fit better, following a suggestion made by Purbach in the case of Mercury, whose orbit is even more eccentric than that of Mars, though observations were too scanty to form the foundation of any theory. Kepler gave his fancy play in the choice of an oval, greater at one end than the other, endeavouring to satisfy some ideas about epicyclic motion, but could not find a satisfactory curve. He then had the fortunate idea of trying an ellipse with the same axis as his tentative oval. Mars now appeared too slow at the apses instead of too quick, so obviously some intermediate ellipse must be sought between the trial ellipse and the circle on the same axis. At this point the \"long arm of coincidence\" came into play. Half-way between the apses lay the mean distance, and at this position the error was half the distance between the ellipse and the circle, amounting to .00429 of a radius. With these figures in his mind, Kepler looked up the greatest optical inequality of Mars, the angle between the straight lines from Mars to the Sun and to the centre of the circle.[3] The secant of this angle was 1.00429, so that he noted that an ellipse reduced from the circle in the ratio of 1.00429 to 1 would fit the motion of Mars at the mean distance as well as the apses.\n[Footnote 3: This is clearly a maximum at AMC in Fig. 2, when its tangent AC/CM = the eccentricity.]","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In this paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" the text delves into Kepler's meticulous process of refining his planetary theory, specifically focusing on Mars. Despite initial improvements, residual discrepancies of eight minutes of arc persisted in Tycho's observations, prompting Kepler to construct a new theory to account for these errors. Kepler rejected the notion of uniform circular motion for Mars, considering the orbit's non-circular nature or variable angular velocity. He revisited the concept of the \"second inequality\" caused by Earth's motion and proposed the inclusion of an equant for the sun or Earth to ensure uniformity. By analyzing solar motion irregularities, Kepler confirmed the need for an equant, supporting Ptolemy's principle. Kepler then explored the idea of a force weakening with distance, observing varying velocities at different points in Mars' orbit. Through meticulous calculations and geometric analysis, Kepler discovered that an elliptical orbit, rather than a circular one, best fit Mars' motion, with the ellipse's dimensions adjusted to match observations accurately, showcasing Kepler's innovative and rigorous approach to celestial mechanics.","original_text":"A marked improvement in residuals was the result of this step, proving, so far, the correctness of Ptolemy's principle, but there still remained discordances amounting to eight minutes of arc. Copernicus, who had no idea of the accuracy obtainable in observations, would probably have regarded such an agreement as remarkably good; but Kepler refused to admit the possibility of an error of eight minutes in any of Tycho's observations. He thereupon vowed to construct from these eight minutes a new planetary theory that should account for them all. His repeated failures had by this time convinced him that no uniformly described circle could possibly represent the motion of Mars. Either the orbit could not be circular, or else the angular velocity could not be constant about any point whatever. He determined to attack the \"second inequality,\" i.e. the optical illusion caused by the earth's annual motion, but first revived an old idea of his own that for the sake of uniformity the sun, or as he preferred to regard it, the earth, should have an equant as well as the planets. From the irregularities of the solar motion he soon found that this was the case, and that the motion was uniform about a point on the line from the sun to the centre of the earth's orbit, such that the centre bisected the distance from the sun to the \"Equant\"; this fully supported Ptolemy's principle. Clearly then the earth's linear velocity could not be constant, and Kepler was encouraged to revive another of his speculations as to a force which was weaker at greater distances. He found the velocity greater at the nearer apse, so that the time over an equal arc at either apse was proportional to the distance. He conjectured that this might prove to be true for arcs at all parts of the orbit, and to test this he divided the orbit into 360 equal parts, and calculated the distances to the points of division. Archimedes had obtained an approximation to the area of a circle by dividing it radially into a very large number of triangles, and Kepler had this device in mind. He found that the sums of successive distances from his 360 points were approximately proportional to the times from point to point, and was thus enabled to represent much more accurately the annual motion of the earth which produced the second inequality of Mars, to whose motion he now returned. Three points are sufficient to define a circle, so he took three observed positions of Mars and found a circle; he then took three other positions, but obtained a different circle, and a third set gave yet another. It thus began to appear that the orbit could not be a circle. He next tried to divide into 360 equal parts, as he had in the case of the earth, but the sums of distances failed to fit the times, and he realised that the sums of distances were not a good measure of the area of successive triangles. He noted, however, that the errors at the apses were now smaller than with a central circular orbit, and of the opposite sign, so he determined to try whether an oval orbit would fit better, following a suggestion made by Purbach in the case of Mercury, whose orbit is even more eccentric than that of Mars, though observations were too scanty to form the foundation of any theory. Kepler gave his fancy play in the choice of an oval, greater at one end than the other, endeavouring to satisfy some ideas about epicyclic motion, but could not find a satisfactory curve. He then had the fortunate idea of trying an ellipse with the same axis as his tentative oval. Mars now appeared too slow at the apses instead of too quick, so obviously some intermediate ellipse must be sought between the trial ellipse and the circle on the same axis. At this point the \"long arm of coincidence\" came into play. Half-way between the apses lay the mean distance, and at this position the error was half the distance between the ellipse and the circle, amounting to .00429 of a radius. With these figures in his mind, Kepler looked up the greatest optical inequality of Mars, the angle between the straight lines from Mars to the Sun and to the centre of the circle.[3] The secant of this angle was 1.00429, so that he noted that an ellipse reduced from the circle in the ratio of 1.00429 to 1 would fit the motion of Mars at the mean distance as well as the apses.\n[Footnote 3: This is clearly a maximum at AMC in Fig. 2, when its tangent AC/CM = the eccentricity.]","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler's exceptional dedication and genius enabled him to derive the first two laws that solidified his reputation as the 'Legislator of the Heavens,' despite working through a multitude of flawed hypotheses with unwavering perseverance and diligence.","original_text":"It is often said that a coincidence like this only happens to somebody who \"deserves his luck,\" but this simply means that recognition is essential to the coincidence. In the same way the appearance of one of a large number of people mentioned is hailed as a case of the old adage \"Talk of the devil, etc.,\" ignoring all the people who failed to appear. No one, however, will consider Kepler unduly favoured. His genius, in his case certainly \"an infinite capacity for taking pains,\" enabled him out of his medley of hypotheses, mainly unsound, by dint of enormous labour and patience, to arrive thus at the first two of the laws which established his title of \"Legislator of the Heavens\".\nFIGURES EXPLANATORY OF KEPLER'S THEORY OF THE MOTION OF MARS.\n[Illustration: FIG. 1.]\n_______ /       \\ /         \\ |           | |___________| Q|  E  C  A  |P |           | \\         / \\_______/\n[Illustration: FIG. 2.]\n___M___ /___|\\__\\ //  N|\\\\ \\\\ |/    | \\\\ \\| |_____|__\\\\_| Q| E   C   A |P |\\    |    /| \\\\___|___// \\___|___/\n[Transcriber's Note: Approximate renditions of these figures are provided. Fig. 1 is a circle. Fig. 2 is a circle which contains an ellipse, tangent to the circle at Q and P. Line segments from M (on the circle) and N (on the ellipse) meet at point A.]\nFIG. 1.--In Ptolemy's excentric theory, A may be taken to represent the earth, C the centre of a planet's orbit, and E the equant, P (perigee) and Q (apogee) being the apses of the orbit. Ptolemy's idea was that uniform motion in a circle must be provided, and since the motion was not uniform about the earth, A could not coincide with C; and since the motion still failed to be uniform about A or C, some point E must be found about which the motion should be uniform.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary encapsulates Kepler's remarkable dedication and intellectual capacity in deriving the laws of planetary motion from flawed hypotheses, establishing his reputation as the 'Legislator of the Heavens.'","original_text":"It is often said that a coincidence like this only happens to somebody who \"deserves his luck,\" but this simply means that recognition is essential to the coincidence. In the same way the appearance of one of a large number of people mentioned is hailed as a case of the old adage \"Talk of the devil, etc.,\" ignoring all the people who failed to appear. No one, however, will consider Kepler unduly favoured. His genius, in his case certainly \"an infinite capacity for taking pains,\" enabled him out of his medley of hypotheses, mainly unsound, by dint of enormous labour and patience, to arrive thus at the first two of the laws which established his title of \"Legislator of the Heavens\".\nFIGURES EXPLANATORY OF KEPLER'S THEORY OF THE MOTION OF MARS.\n[Illustration: FIG. 1.]\n_______ /       \\ /         \\ |           | |___________| Q|  E  C  A  |P |           | \\         / \\_______/\n[Illustration: FIG. 2.]\n___M___ /___|\\__\\ //  N|\\\\ \\\\ |/    | \\\\ \\| |_____|__\\\\_| Q| E   C   A |P |\\    |    /| \\\\___|___// \\___|___/\n[Transcriber's Note: Approximate renditions of these figures are provided. Fig. 1 is a circle. Fig. 2 is a circle which contains an ellipse, tangent to the circle at Q and P. Line segments from M (on the circle) and N (on the ellipse) meet at point A.]\nFIG. 1.--In Ptolemy's excentric theory, A may be taken to represent the earth, C the centre of a planet's orbit, and E the equant, P (perigee) and Q (apogee) being the apses of the orbit. Ptolemy's idea was that uniform motion in a circle must be provided, and since the motion was not uniform about the earth, A could not coincide with C; and since the motion still failed to be uniform about A or C, some point E must be found about which the motion should be uniform.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the paragraph by emphasizing the significance of recognition, luck, and Kepler's exceptional qualities in his scientific accomplishments. It clearly conveys that Kepler's success was a product of his hard work and intelligence rather than random chance.","original_text":"It is often said that a coincidence like this only happens to somebody who \"deserves his luck,\" but this simply means that recognition is essential to the coincidence. In the same way the appearance of one of a large number of people mentioned is hailed as a case of the old adage \"Talk of the devil, etc.,\" ignoring all the people who failed to appear. No one, however, will consider Kepler unduly favoured. His genius, in his case certainly \"an infinite capacity for taking pains,\" enabled him out of his medley of hypotheses, mainly unsound, by dint of enormous labour and patience, to arrive thus at the first two of the laws which established his title of \"Legislator of the Heavens\".\nFIGURES EXPLANATORY OF KEPLER'S THEORY OF THE MOTION OF MARS.\n[Illustration: FIG. 1.]\n_______ /       \\ /         \\ |           | |___________| Q|  E  C  A  |P |           | \\         / \\_______/\n[Illustration: FIG. 2.]\n___M___ /___|\\__\\ //  N|\\\\ \\\\ |/    | \\\\ \\| |_____|__\\\\_| Q| E   C   A |P |\\    |    /| \\\\___|___// \\___|___/\n[Transcriber's Note: Approximate renditions of these figures are provided. Fig. 1 is a circle. Fig. 2 is a circle which contains an ellipse, tangent to the circle at Q and P. Line segments from M (on the circle) and N (on the ellipse) meet at point A.]\nFIG. 1.--In Ptolemy's excentric theory, A may be taken to represent the earth, C the centre of a planet's orbit, and E the equant, P (perigee) and Q (apogee) being the apses of the orbit. Ptolemy's idea was that uniform motion in a circle must be provided, and since the motion was not uniform about the earth, A could not coincide with C; and since the motion still failed to be uniform about A or C, some point E must be found about which the motion should be uniform.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the recognition of Johannes Kepler's achievements in formulating the laws that established him as the \"Legislator of the Heavens.\" Despite the notion that such success is attributed to deserving individuals, Kepler's genius and tireless effort, characterized as an \"infinite capacity for taking pains,\" were pivotal in deriving his laws amidst a multitude of flawed hypotheses. Through immense dedication and patience, Kepler was able to unveil the initial two laws, solidifying his significant astronomical contributions. The text emphasizes that Kepler's success was not merely a stroke of luck but a result of his exceptional intellect and relentless work ethic.","original_text":"It is often said that a coincidence like this only happens to somebody who \"deserves his luck,\" but this simply means that recognition is essential to the coincidence. In the same way the appearance of one of a large number of people mentioned is hailed as a case of the old adage \"Talk of the devil, etc.,\" ignoring all the people who failed to appear. No one, however, will consider Kepler unduly favoured. His genius, in his case certainly \"an infinite capacity for taking pains,\" enabled him out of his medley of hypotheses, mainly unsound, by dint of enormous labour and patience, to arrive thus at the first two of the laws which established his title of \"Legislator of the Heavens\".\nFIGURES EXPLANATORY OF KEPLER'S THEORY OF THE MOTION OF MARS.\n[Illustration: FIG. 1.]\n_______ /       \\ /         \\ |           | |___________| Q|  E  C  A  |P |           | \\         / \\_______/\n[Illustration: FIG. 2.]\n___M___ /___|\\__\\ //  N|\\\\ \\\\ |/    | \\\\ \\| |_____|__\\\\_| Q| E   C   A |P |\\    |    /| \\\\___|___// \\___|___/\n[Transcriber's Note: Approximate renditions of these figures are provided. Fig. 1 is a circle. Fig. 2 is a circle which contains an ellipse, tangent to the circle at Q and P. Line segments from M (on the circle) and N (on the ellipse) meet at point A.]\nFIG. 1.--In Ptolemy's excentric theory, A may be taken to represent the earth, C the centre of a planet's orbit, and E the equant, P (perigee) and Q (apogee) being the apses of the orbit. Ptolemy's idea was that uniform motion in a circle must be provided, and since the motion was not uniform about the earth, A could not coincide with C; and since the motion still failed to be uniform about A or C, some point E must be found about which the motion should be uniform.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively conveys Kepler's adjustments to Ptolemy's excentric theory, emphasizing changes in velocities and the positioning of points in the diagram.","original_text":"FIG. 2.--This is not drawn to scale, but is intended to illustrate Kepler's modification of Ptolemy's excentric. Kepler found velocities at P and Q proportional not to AP and AQ but to AQ and AP, or to EP and EQ if EC = CA (bisection of the excentricity). The velocity at M was wrong, and AM appeared too great. Kepler's first ellipse had M moved too near C. The distance AC is much exaggerated in the figure, as also is MN. AN = CP, the radius of the circle. MN should be .00429 of the radius, and MC/NC should be 1.00429. The velocity at N appeared to be proportional to EN ( = AN). Kepler concluded that Mars moved round PNQ, so that the area described about A (the sun) was equal in equal times, A being the focus of the ellipse PNQ. The angular velocity is not quite constant about E, the equant or empty focus, but the difference could hardly have been detected in Kepler's time.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Kepler's modifications to Ptolemy's excentric theory, focusing on the adjustments made to velocities at different points and the corrections to the ellipse.","original_text":"FIG. 2.--This is not drawn to scale, but is intended to illustrate Kepler's modification of Ptolemy's excentric. Kepler found velocities at P and Q proportional not to AP and AQ but to AQ and AP, or to EP and EQ if EC = CA (bisection of the excentricity). The velocity at M was wrong, and AM appeared too great. Kepler's first ellipse had M moved too near C. The distance AC is much exaggerated in the figure, as also is MN. AN = CP, the radius of the circle. MN should be .00429 of the radius, and MC/NC should be 1.00429. The velocity at N appeared to be proportional to EN ( = AN). Kepler concluded that Mars moved round PNQ, so that the area described about A (the sun) was equal in equal times, A being the focus of the ellipse PNQ. The angular velocity is not quite constant about E, the equant or empty focus, but the difference could hardly have been detected in Kepler's time.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Kepler's adjustments to Ptolemy's excentric theory, emphasizing the proportional relationships between points and distances in the diagram and Kepler's conclusions about Mars' motion around PNQ.","original_text":"FIG. 2.--This is not drawn to scale, but is intended to illustrate Kepler's modification of Ptolemy's excentric. Kepler found velocities at P and Q proportional not to AP and AQ but to AQ and AP, or to EP and EQ if EC = CA (bisection of the excentricity). The velocity at M was wrong, and AM appeared too great. Kepler's first ellipse had M moved too near C. The distance AC is much exaggerated in the figure, as also is MN. AN = CP, the radius of the circle. MN should be .00429 of the radius, and MC/NC should be 1.00429. The velocity at N appeared to be proportional to EN ( = AN). Kepler concluded that Mars moved round PNQ, so that the area described about A (the sun) was equal in equal times, A being the focus of the ellipse PNQ. The angular velocity is not quite constant about E, the equant or empty focus, but the difference could hardly have been detected in Kepler's time.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The provided text is a detailed explanation of Kepler's modification of Ptolemy's excentric theory, illustrated in FIG. 2. Kepler observed that velocities at points P and Q were proportional not to AP and AQ, but to AQ and AP, or to EP and EQ if EC = CA (bisection of the excentricity). He noted errors in the velocity at point M, with AM appearing too great, leading to adjustments in his ellipse. Kepler's analysis revealed that Mars moved around PNQ, ensuring that the area described about point A (the sun) was equal in equal times, with A being the focus of the ellipse PNQ. Despite slight variations in angular velocity around E (the equant or empty focus), these differences were likely imperceptible during Kepler's era.","original_text":"FIG. 2.--This is not drawn to scale, but is intended to illustrate Kepler's modification of Ptolemy's excentric. Kepler found velocities at P and Q proportional not to AP and AQ but to AQ and AP, or to EP and EQ if EC = CA (bisection of the excentricity). The velocity at M was wrong, and AM appeared too great. Kepler's first ellipse had M moved too near C. The distance AC is much exaggerated in the figure, as also is MN. AN = CP, the radius of the circle. MN should be .00429 of the radius, and MC/NC should be 1.00429. The velocity at N appeared to be proportional to EN ( = AN). Kepler concluded that Mars moved round PNQ, so that the area described about A (the sun) was equal in equal times, A being the focus of the ellipse PNQ. The angular velocity is not quite constant about E, the equant or empty focus, but the difference could hardly have been detected in Kepler's time.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's process of deducing the elliptical nature of Mars's orbit and formulating his first and second laws of planetary motion.","original_text":"Kepler's improved determination of the earth's orbit was obtained by plotting the different positions of the earth corresponding to successive rotations of Mars, i.e. intervals of 687 days. At each of these the date of the year would give the angle MSE (Mars-Sun-Earth), and Tycho's observation the angle MES. So the triangle could be solved except for scale, and the ratio of SE to SM would give the distance of Mars from the sun in terms of that of the earth. Measuring from a fixed position of Mars (e.g. perihelion), this gave the variation of SE, showing the earth's inequality. Measuring from a fixed position of the earth, it would give similarly a series of positions of Mars, which, though lying not far from the circle whose diameter was the axis of Mars' orbit, joining perihelion and aphelion, always fell inside the circle except at those two points. It was a long time before it dawned upon Kepler that the simplest figure falling within the circle except at the two extremities of the diameter, was an ellipse, and it is not clear why his first attempt with an ellipse should have been just as much too narrow as the circle was too wide. The fact remains that he recognised suddenly that halving this error was tantamount to reducing the circle to the ellipse whose eccentricity was that of the old theory, i.e. that in which the sun would be in one focus and the equant in the other.\nHaving now fitted the ends of both major and minor axes of the ellipse, he leaped to the conclusion that the orbit would fit everywhere.\nThe practical effect of his clearing of the \"second inequality\" was to refer the orbit of Mars directly to the sun, and he found that the area between successive distances of Mars from the sun (instead of the sum of the distances) was strictly proportional to the time taken, in short, equal areas were described in equal times (2nd Law) when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse (1st Law).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's method of determining the earth's orbit by analyzing the positions of the earth relative to Mars over intervals of 687 days. By using angles between Mars, the Sun, and the Earth, Kepler derived the distances of Mars from the sun in relation to the earth. This analysis led him to realize that the earth's orbit could be represented by an ellipse, with the sun at one focus and the equant at the other. Kepler's breakthrough in understanding the ellipse as the suitable figure for the orbit of Mars allowed him to establish that equal areas are covered in equal times when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse, which forms the basis of his first and second laws of planetary motion.","original_text":"Kepler's improved determination of the earth's orbit was obtained by plotting the different positions of the earth corresponding to successive rotations of Mars, i.e. intervals of 687 days. At each of these the date of the year would give the angle MSE (Mars-Sun-Earth), and Tycho's observation the angle MES. So the triangle could be solved except for scale, and the ratio of SE to SM would give the distance of Mars from the sun in terms of that of the earth. Measuring from a fixed position of Mars (e.g. perihelion), this gave the variation of SE, showing the earth's inequality. Measuring from a fixed position of the earth, it would give similarly a series of positions of Mars, which, though lying not far from the circle whose diameter was the axis of Mars' orbit, joining perihelion and aphelion, always fell inside the circle except at those two points. It was a long time before it dawned upon Kepler that the simplest figure falling within the circle except at the two extremities of the diameter, was an ellipse, and it is not clear why his first attempt with an ellipse should have been just as much too narrow as the circle was too wide. The fact remains that he recognised suddenly that halving this error was tantamount to reducing the circle to the ellipse whose eccentricity was that of the old theory, i.e. that in which the sun would be in one focus and the equant in the other.\nHaving now fitted the ends of both major and minor axes of the ellipse, he leaped to the conclusion that the orbit would fit everywhere.\nThe practical effect of his clearing of the \"second inequality\" was to refer the orbit of Mars directly to the sun, and he found that the area between successive distances of Mars from the sun (instead of the sum of the distances) was strictly proportional to the time taken, in short, equal areas were described in equal times (2nd Law) when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse (1st Law).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Kepler's systematic approach in determining the Earth's orbit through Mars' positions, his recognition of the elliptical nature of Mars' orbit, and the subsequent formulation of his laws of planetary motion.","original_text":"Kepler's improved determination of the earth's orbit was obtained by plotting the different positions of the earth corresponding to successive rotations of Mars, i.e. intervals of 687 days. At each of these the date of the year would give the angle MSE (Mars-Sun-Earth), and Tycho's observation the angle MES. So the triangle could be solved except for scale, and the ratio of SE to SM would give the distance of Mars from the sun in terms of that of the earth. Measuring from a fixed position of Mars (e.g. perihelion), this gave the variation of SE, showing the earth's inequality. Measuring from a fixed position of the earth, it would give similarly a series of positions of Mars, which, though lying not far from the circle whose diameter was the axis of Mars' orbit, joining perihelion and aphelion, always fell inside the circle except at those two points. It was a long time before it dawned upon Kepler that the simplest figure falling within the circle except at the two extremities of the diameter, was an ellipse, and it is not clear why his first attempt with an ellipse should have been just as much too narrow as the circle was too wide. The fact remains that he recognised suddenly that halving this error was tantamount to reducing the circle to the ellipse whose eccentricity was that of the old theory, i.e. that in which the sun would be in one focus and the equant in the other.\nHaving now fitted the ends of both major and minor axes of the ellipse, he leaped to the conclusion that the orbit would fit everywhere.\nThe practical effect of his clearing of the \"second inequality\" was to refer the orbit of Mars directly to the sun, and he found that the area between successive distances of Mars from the sun (instead of the sum of the distances) was strictly proportional to the time taken, in short, equal areas were described in equal times (2nd Law) when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse (1st Law).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In the text from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" the author discusses Kepler's process of refining the determination of the earth's orbit by analyzing the positions of Mars relative to the earth's rotations. Kepler utilized angles between Mars, the Sun, and the Earth, along with Tycho's observations, to calculate distances and variations in the positions of Mars. Through this analysis, Kepler discovered that the positions of Mars formed an ellipse, realizing that halving the error between the circle and the ellipse aligned with the eccentricity of the old theory. By fitting the major and minor axes of the ellipse, Kepler concluded that the ellipse accurately represented Mars's orbit. This breakthrough allowed Kepler to connect Mars's orbit directly to the sun, establishing that equal areas were covered in equal times when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse, thus formulating the first and second laws of planetary motion.","original_text":"Kepler's improved determination of the earth's orbit was obtained by plotting the different positions of the earth corresponding to successive rotations of Mars, i.e. intervals of 687 days. At each of these the date of the year would give the angle MSE (Mars-Sun-Earth), and Tycho's observation the angle MES. So the triangle could be solved except for scale, and the ratio of SE to SM would give the distance of Mars from the sun in terms of that of the earth. Measuring from a fixed position of Mars (e.g. perihelion), this gave the variation of SE, showing the earth's inequality. Measuring from a fixed position of the earth, it would give similarly a series of positions of Mars, which, though lying not far from the circle whose diameter was the axis of Mars' orbit, joining perihelion and aphelion, always fell inside the circle except at those two points. It was a long time before it dawned upon Kepler that the simplest figure falling within the circle except at the two extremities of the diameter, was an ellipse, and it is not clear why his first attempt with an ellipse should have been just as much too narrow as the circle was too wide. The fact remains that he recognised suddenly that halving this error was tantamount to reducing the circle to the ellipse whose eccentricity was that of the old theory, i.e. that in which the sun would be in one focus and the equant in the other.\nHaving now fitted the ends of both major and minor axes of the ellipse, he leaped to the conclusion that the orbit would fit everywhere.\nThe practical effect of his clearing of the \"second inequality\" was to refer the orbit of Mars directly to the sun, and he found that the area between successive distances of Mars from the sun (instead of the sum of the distances) was strictly proportional to the time taken, in short, equal areas were described in equal times (2nd Law) when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse (1st Law).","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary encapsulates Kepler's first and second laws of planetary motion, their order of discovery, and their contrast with circular motion theory, emphasizing the significance of Kepler's breakthroughs and Newton's later contributions.","original_text":"He announced that (1) The planet describes an ellipse, the sun being in one focus; and (2) The straight line joining the planet to the sun sweeps out equal areas in any two equal intervals of time. These are Kepler's first and second Laws though not discovered in that order, and it was at once clear that Ptolemy's \"bisection of the excentricity\" simply amounted to the fact that the centre of an ellipse bisects the distance between the foci, the sun being in one focus and the angular velocity being uniform about the empty focus. For so many centuries had the fetish of circular motion postponed discovery. It was natural that Kepler should assume that his laws would apply equally to all the planets, but the proof of this, as well as the reason underlying the laws, was only given by Newton, who approached the subject from a totally different standpoint.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's first and second laws, illustrating their impact on astronomy and the contrast with Ptolemy's theories. It also mentions Newton's contributions to further understanding these laws.","original_text":"He announced that (1) The planet describes an ellipse, the sun being in one focus; and (2) The straight line joining the planet to the sun sweeps out equal areas in any two equal intervals of time. These are Kepler's first and second Laws though not discovered in that order, and it was at once clear that Ptolemy's \"bisection of the excentricity\" simply amounted to the fact that the centre of an ellipse bisects the distance between the foci, the sun being in one focus and the angular velocity being uniform about the empty focus. For so many centuries had the fetish of circular motion postponed discovery. It was natural that Kepler should assume that his laws would apply equally to all the planets, but the proof of this, as well as the reason underlying the laws, was only given by Newton, who approached the subject from a totally different standpoint.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures the essence of Kepler's first and second laws of planetary motion, the significance of elliptical orbits, and the departure from circular motion beliefs. It provides a clear and concise overview of the key concepts discussed in the text.","original_text":"He announced that (1) The planet describes an ellipse, the sun being in one focus; and (2) The straight line joining the planet to the sun sweeps out equal areas in any two equal intervals of time. These are Kepler's first and second Laws though not discovered in that order, and it was at once clear that Ptolemy's \"bisection of the excentricity\" simply amounted to the fact that the centre of an ellipse bisects the distance between the foci, the sun being in one focus and the angular velocity being uniform about the empty focus. For so many centuries had the fetish of circular motion postponed discovery. It was natural that Kepler should assume that his laws would apply equally to all the planets, but the proof of this, as well as the reason underlying the laws, was only given by Newton, who approached the subject from a totally different standpoint.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's announcement of his first and second laws of planetary motion. The first law states that planets move in ellipses with the sun at one focus, while the second law describes how a planet sweeps out equal areas in equal time intervals. These laws, not discovered in that sequence, reveal that Ptolemy's \"bisection of the excentricity\" essentially means that the center of an ellipse divides the distance between the foci, with the sun at one focus and uniform angular velocity around the empty focus. The text reflects on how the longstanding belief in circular motion delayed these discoveries. Kepler's assumption that these laws apply universally to all planets is mentioned, with the confirmation and deeper understanding of these laws attributed to Newton, who approached the topic from a different perspective.","original_text":"He announced that (1) The planet describes an ellipse, the sun being in one focus; and (2) The straight line joining the planet to the sun sweeps out equal areas in any two equal intervals of time. These are Kepler's first and second Laws though not discovered in that order, and it was at once clear that Ptolemy's \"bisection of the excentricity\" simply amounted to the fact that the centre of an ellipse bisects the distance between the foci, the sun being in one focus and the angular velocity being uniform about the empty focus. For so many centuries had the fetish of circular motion postponed discovery. It was natural that Kepler should assume that his laws would apply equally to all the planets, but the proof of this, as well as the reason underlying the laws, was only given by Newton, who approached the subject from a totally different standpoint.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's challenges in obtaining funds for his planetary studies after the publication of his commentary on Mars in 1609. Despite petitioning the Emperor for additional funds, delays occurred, exacerbated by personal tragedies including his wife's illness and the loss of his son. Kepler faced financial struggles, family tragedies, and political turmoil, which ultimately led him to leave Prague for a professorship in Linz.","original_text":"This commentary on Mars was published in 1609, the year of the invention of the telescope, and Kepler petitioned the Emperor for further funds to enable him to complete the study of the other planets, but once more there was delay; in 1612 Rudolph died, and his brother Matthias who succeeded him, cared very little for astronomy or even astrology, though Kepler was reappointed to his post of Imperial Mathematician. He left Prague to take up a permanent professorship at the University of Linz. His own account of the circumstances is gloomy enough. He says, \"In the first place I could get no money from the Court, and my wife, who had for a long time been suffering from low spirits and despondency, was taken violently ill towards the end of 1610, with the Hungarian fever, epilepsy and phrenitis. She was scarcely convalescent when all my three children were at once attacked with smallpox. Leopold with his army occupied the town beyond the river just as I lost the dearest of my sons, him whose nativity you will find in my book on the new star. The town on this side of the river where I lived was harassed by the Bohemian troops, whose new levies were insubordinate and insolent; to complete the whole, the Austrian army brought the plague with them into the city. I went into Austria and endeavoured to procure the situation which I now hold. Returning in June, I found my wife in a decline from her grief at the death of her son, and on the eve of an infectious fever, and I lost her also within eleven days of my return. Then came fresh annoyance, of course, and her fortune was to be divided with my step-sisters. The Emperor Rudolph would not agree to my departure; vain hopes were given me of being paid from Saxony; my time and money were wasted together, till on the death of the Emperor in 1612, I was named again by his successor, and suffered to depart to Linz.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, in 1609, wrote about Mars, seeking further funding for planetary studies. However, delays ensued, worsened by personal tragedies like his wife's illness and the loss of his son to smallpox. Amidst political turmoil and the plague, he moved to Linz for a professorship. Despite hardships, he was reappointed as Imperial Mathematician after Emperor Rudolph's death in 1612.","original_text":"This commentary on Mars was published in 1609, the year of the invention of the telescope, and Kepler petitioned the Emperor for further funds to enable him to complete the study of the other planets, but once more there was delay; in 1612 Rudolph died, and his brother Matthias who succeeded him, cared very little for astronomy or even astrology, though Kepler was reappointed to his post of Imperial Mathematician. He left Prague to take up a permanent professorship at the University of Linz. His own account of the circumstances is gloomy enough. He says, \"In the first place I could get no money from the Court, and my wife, who had for a long time been suffering from low spirits and despondency, was taken violently ill towards the end of 1610, with the Hungarian fever, epilepsy and phrenitis. She was scarcely convalescent when all my three children were at once attacked with smallpox. Leopold with his army occupied the town beyond the river just as I lost the dearest of my sons, him whose nativity you will find in my book on the new star. The town on this side of the river where I lived was harassed by the Bohemian troops, whose new levies were insubordinate and insolent; to complete the whole, the Austrian army brought the plague with them into the city. I went into Austria and endeavoured to procure the situation which I now hold. Returning in June, I found my wife in a decline from her grief at the death of her son, and on the eve of an infectious fever, and I lost her also within eleven days of my return. Then came fresh annoyance, of course, and her fortune was to be divided with my step-sisters. The Emperor Rudolph would not agree to my departure; vain hopes were given me of being paid from Saxony; my time and money were wasted together, till on the death of the Emperor in 1612, I was named again by his successor, and suffered to depart to Linz.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's challenges in securing funds for his planetary studies after the publication of his commentary on Mars in 1609. Despite petitioning the Emperor for additional funds, delays occurred. Following Rudolph's death in 1612, his successor Matthias, who had little interest in astronomy, caused further setbacks. Kepler faced personal tragedies, including his wife falling ill and the loss of his son to smallpox. He also encountered political turmoil and the plague in the city. Despite these hardships, he eventually left Prague for a professorship at the University of Linz, reflecting on the difficult circumstances he endured during this period.","original_text":"This commentary on Mars was published in 1609, the year of the invention of the telescope, and Kepler petitioned the Emperor for further funds to enable him to complete the study of the other planets, but once more there was delay; in 1612 Rudolph died, and his brother Matthias who succeeded him, cared very little for astronomy or even astrology, though Kepler was reappointed to his post of Imperial Mathematician. He left Prague to take up a permanent professorship at the University of Linz. His own account of the circumstances is gloomy enough. He says, \"In the first place I could get no money from the Court, and my wife, who had for a long time been suffering from low spirits and despondency, was taken violently ill towards the end of 1610, with the Hungarian fever, epilepsy and phrenitis. She was scarcely convalescent when all my three children were at once attacked with smallpox. Leopold with his army occupied the town beyond the river just as I lost the dearest of my sons, him whose nativity you will find in my book on the new star. The town on this side of the river where I lived was harassed by the Bohemian troops, whose new levies were insubordinate and insolent; to complete the whole, the Austrian army brought the plague with them into the city. I went into Austria and endeavoured to procure the situation which I now hold. Returning in June, I found my wife in a decline from her grief at the death of her son, and on the eve of an infectious fever, and I lost her also within eleven days of my return. Then came fresh annoyance, of course, and her fortune was to be divided with my step-sisters. The Emperor Rudolph would not agree to my departure; vain hopes were given me of being paid from Saxony; my time and money were wasted together, till on the death of the Emperor in 1612, I was named again by his successor, and suffered to depart to Linz.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The provided paragraph discusses the challenges faced by Johannes Kepler in 1609, particularly in securing funds to continue his planetary studies. Despite petitioning the Emperor for support, delays persisted. After Emperor Rudolph's death in 1612, his successor Matthias, who had little interest in astronomy, caused further setbacks. Kepler, reappointed as Imperial Mathematician, eventually left Prague for a professorship at the University of Linz. Amidst these professional struggles, Kepler also endured personal hardships, including his wife's illness and the loss of his son to smallpox. The paragraph portrays a period of immense personal and professional turmoil for Kepler, marked by financial difficulties, family tragedies, and political unrest.","original_text":"This commentary on Mars was published in 1609, the year of the invention of the telescope, and Kepler petitioned the Emperor for further funds to enable him to complete the study of the other planets, but once more there was delay; in 1612 Rudolph died, and his brother Matthias who succeeded him, cared very little for astronomy or even astrology, though Kepler was reappointed to his post of Imperial Mathematician. He left Prague to take up a permanent professorship at the University of Linz. His own account of the circumstances is gloomy enough. He says, \"In the first place I could get no money from the Court, and my wife, who had for a long time been suffering from low spirits and despondency, was taken violently ill towards the end of 1610, with the Hungarian fever, epilepsy and phrenitis. She was scarcely convalescent when all my three children were at once attacked with smallpox. Leopold with his army occupied the town beyond the river just as I lost the dearest of my sons, him whose nativity you will find in my book on the new star. The town on this side of the river where I lived was harassed by the Bohemian troops, whose new levies were insubordinate and insolent; to complete the whole, the Austrian army brought the plague with them into the city. I went into Austria and endeavoured to procure the situation which I now hold. Returning in June, I found my wife in a decline from her grief at the death of her son, and on the eve of an infectious fever, and I lost her also within eleven days of my return. Then came fresh annoyance, of course, and her fortune was to be divided with my step-sisters. The Emperor Rudolph would not agree to my departure; vain hopes were given me of being paid from Saxony; my time and money were wasted together, till on the death of the Emperor in 1612, I was named again by his successor, and suffered to depart to Linz.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's quest for a second wife, detailing his assessment of eleven candidates and his eventual selection of a woman from a humble background, highlighting her qualities and suitability. It provides a thorough overview of the paragraph.","original_text":"Being thus left a widower with a ten-year-old daughter Susanna, and a boy Louis of half her age, he looked for a second wife to take charge of them. He has given an account of eleven ladies whose suitability he considered. The first, an intimate friend of his first wife, ultimately declined; one was too old, another an invalid, another too proud of her birth and quarterings, another could do nothing useful, and so on. Number eight kept him guessing for three months, until he tired of her constant indecision, and confided his disappointment to number nine, who was not impressed. Number ten, introduced by a friend, Kepler found exceedingly ugly and enormously fat, and number eleven apparently too young. Kepler then reconsidered one of the earlier ones, disregarding the advice of his friends who objected to her lowly station. She was the orphan daughter of a cabinetmaker, educated for twelve years by favour of the Lady of Stahrenburg, and Kepler writes of her: \"Her person and manners are suitable to mine; no pride, no extravagance; she can bear to work; she has a tolerable knowledge of how to manage a family; middle-aged and of a disposition and capability to acquire what she still wants\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Johannes Kepler, after becoming a widower with two children, sought a second wife. He evaluated eleven potential candidates, rejecting some due to age, health, pride, or lack of usefulness. After various encounters, he eventually considered a woman from a humble background, orphaned and educated by a noblewoman, who possessed qualities matching his own, such as modesty, practical skills, and a willingness to work.","original_text":"Being thus left a widower with a ten-year-old daughter Susanna, and a boy Louis of half her age, he looked for a second wife to take charge of them. He has given an account of eleven ladies whose suitability he considered. The first, an intimate friend of his first wife, ultimately declined; one was too old, another an invalid, another too proud of her birth and quarterings, another could do nothing useful, and so on. Number eight kept him guessing for three months, until he tired of her constant indecision, and confided his disappointment to number nine, who was not impressed. Number ten, introduced by a friend, Kepler found exceedingly ugly and enormously fat, and number eleven apparently too young. Kepler then reconsidered one of the earlier ones, disregarding the advice of his friends who objected to her lowly station. She was the orphan daughter of a cabinetmaker, educated for twelve years by favour of the Lady of Stahrenburg, and Kepler writes of her: \"Her person and manners are suitable to mine; no pride, no extravagance; she can bear to work; she has a tolerable knowledge of how to manage a family; middle-aged and of a disposition and capability to acquire what she still wants\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed account of Kepler's search for a second wife, outlining his considerations of multiple candidates and his eventual choice based on character and compatibility.","original_text":"Being thus left a widower with a ten-year-old daughter Susanna, and a boy Louis of half her age, he looked for a second wife to take charge of them. He has given an account of eleven ladies whose suitability he considered. The first, an intimate friend of his first wife, ultimately declined; one was too old, another an invalid, another too proud of her birth and quarterings, another could do nothing useful, and so on. Number eight kept him guessing for three months, until he tired of her constant indecision, and confided his disappointment to number nine, who was not impressed. Number ten, introduced by a friend, Kepler found exceedingly ugly and enormously fat, and number eleven apparently too young. Kepler then reconsidered one of the earlier ones, disregarding the advice of his friends who objected to her lowly station. She was the orphan daughter of a cabinetmaker, educated for twelve years by favour of the Lady of Stahrenburg, and Kepler writes of her: \"Her person and manners are suitable to mine; no pride, no extravagance; she can bear to work; she has a tolerable knowledge of how to manage a family; middle-aged and of a disposition and capability to acquire what she still wants\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's search for a second wife after being left a widower with two children. He considered eleven potential candidates, each with various reasons for being unsuitable, such as being too old, an invalid, or too proud. After a series of rejections and disappointments, he eventually found a suitable match in a woman who was orphaned, educated by a noblewoman, and described as having qualities compatible with his own. Despite objections from friends due to her humble background, Kepler found her to be a good match based on her character, work ethic, and family management skills.","original_text":"Being thus left a widower with a ten-year-old daughter Susanna, and a boy Louis of half her age, he looked for a second wife to take charge of them. He has given an account of eleven ladies whose suitability he considered. The first, an intimate friend of his first wife, ultimately declined; one was too old, another an invalid, another too proud of her birth and quarterings, another could do nothing useful, and so on. Number eight kept him guessing for three months, until he tired of her constant indecision, and confided his disappointment to number nine, who was not impressed. Number ten, introduced by a friend, Kepler found exceedingly ugly and enormously fat, and number eleven apparently too young. Kepler then reconsidered one of the earlier ones, disregarding the advice of his friends who objected to her lowly station. She was the orphan daughter of a cabinetmaker, educated for twelve years by favour of the Lady of Stahrenburg, and Kepler writes of her: \"Her person and manners are suitable to mine; no pride, no extravagance; she can bear to work; she has a tolerable knowledge of how to manage a family; middle-aged and of a disposition and capability to acquire what she still wants\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, amidst a time of abundant and inexpensive Austrian wine, purchased some but noticed inaccuracies in the measurement process. This led him to write a book on a new gauging method, an early example of modern analysis. Summoned to the Diet at Ratisbon to discuss the Gregorian Calendar Reform, he faced excommunication due to conflicts with the Roman Catholic faction in Linz and Gratz, possibly stemming from his independent thinking. Struggling with irregular salary payments, he resorted to publishing an almanac to make ends meet.","original_text":"Wine from the Austrian vineyards was plentiful and cheap at the time of the marriage, and Kepler bought a few casks for his household. When the seller came to ascertain the quantity, Kepler noticed that no proper allowance was made for the bulging parts, and the upshot of his objections was that he wrote a book on a new method of gauging--one of the earliest specimens of modern analysis, extending the properties of plane figures to segments of cones and cylinders as being \"incorporated circles\". He was summoned before the Diet at Ratisbon to give his opinion on the Gregorian Reform of the Calendar, and soon afterwards was excommunicated, having fallen foul of the Roman Catholic party at Linz just as he had previously at Gratz, the reason apparently being that he desired to think for himself. Meanwhile his salary was not paid any more regularly than before, and he was forced to supplement it by publishing what he called a \"vile prophesying almanac which is scarcely more respectable than begging unless it be because it saves the Emperor's credit, who abandons me entirely, and with all his frequent and recent orders in council, would suffer me to perish with hunger\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary captures the essential events in the text, focusing on Kepler's contributions to modern analysis, his involvement in calendar reform discussions, conflicts leading to excommunication, financial challenges, and his critical stance towards the Emperor's support.","original_text":"Wine from the Austrian vineyards was plentiful and cheap at the time of the marriage, and Kepler bought a few casks for his household. When the seller came to ascertain the quantity, Kepler noticed that no proper allowance was made for the bulging parts, and the upshot of his objections was that he wrote a book on a new method of gauging--one of the earliest specimens of modern analysis, extending the properties of plane figures to segments of cones and cylinders as being \"incorporated circles\". He was summoned before the Diet at Ratisbon to give his opinion on the Gregorian Reform of the Calendar, and soon afterwards was excommunicated, having fallen foul of the Roman Catholic party at Linz just as he had previously at Gratz, the reason apparently being that he desired to think for himself. Meanwhile his salary was not paid any more regularly than before, and he was forced to supplement it by publishing what he called a \"vile prophesying almanac which is scarcely more respectable than begging unless it be because it saves the Emperor's credit, who abandons me entirely, and with all his frequent and recent orders in council, would suffer me to perish with hunger\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler purchased wine from Austrian vineyards, noticed measurement inaccuracies, and authored a book on a new gauging method. He was called to discuss the Gregorian Calendar Reform, faced excommunication due to clashes with the Roman Catholic faction, and struggled with irregular salary payments, resorting to publishing an almanac for financial support.","original_text":"Wine from the Austrian vineyards was plentiful and cheap at the time of the marriage, and Kepler bought a few casks for his household. When the seller came to ascertain the quantity, Kepler noticed that no proper allowance was made for the bulging parts, and the upshot of his objections was that he wrote a book on a new method of gauging--one of the earliest specimens of modern analysis, extending the properties of plane figures to segments of cones and cylinders as being \"incorporated circles\". He was summoned before the Diet at Ratisbon to give his opinion on the Gregorian Reform of the Calendar, and soon afterwards was excommunicated, having fallen foul of the Roman Catholic party at Linz just as he had previously at Gratz, the reason apparently being that he desired to think for himself. Meanwhile his salary was not paid any more regularly than before, and he was forced to supplement it by publishing what he called a \"vile prophesying almanac which is scarcely more respectable than begging unless it be because it saves the Emperor's credit, who abandons me entirely, and with all his frequent and recent orders in council, would suffer me to perish with hunger\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In this paragraph from the book \"Kepler\" by Walter W. Bryant, it is described how Kepler, during a time when wine from Austrian vineyards was abundant and inexpensive, purchased some casks for his household. When the seller inaccurately measured the wine due to not accounting for the bulging parts, Kepler objected, leading him to write a pioneering book on a new method of gauging. This work extended the properties of plane figures to segments of cones and cylinders, considering them as \"incorporated circles.\" Kepler's expertise led to his summons before the Diet at Ratisbon to provide insight on the Gregorian Reform of the Calendar. Subsequently, he faced excommunication from the Roman Catholic faction in Linz, as well as in Gratz, likely due to his independent thinking. Despite these challenges, Kepler's salary remained irregular, prompting him to publish a less esteemed almanac to supplement his income, highlighting his struggles with financial instability and the lack of support from the Emperor.","original_text":"Wine from the Austrian vineyards was plentiful and cheap at the time of the marriage, and Kepler bought a few casks for his household. When the seller came to ascertain the quantity, Kepler noticed that no proper allowance was made for the bulging parts, and the upshot of his objections was that he wrote a book on a new method of gauging--one of the earliest specimens of modern analysis, extending the properties of plane figures to segments of cones and cylinders as being \"incorporated circles\". He was summoned before the Diet at Ratisbon to give his opinion on the Gregorian Reform of the Calendar, and soon afterwards was excommunicated, having fallen foul of the Roman Catholic party at Linz just as he had previously at Gratz, the reason apparently being that he desired to think for himself. Meanwhile his salary was not paid any more regularly than before, and he was forced to supplement it by publishing what he called a \"vile prophesying almanac which is scarcely more respectable than begging unless it be because it saves the Emperor's credit, who abandons me entirely, and with all his frequent and recent orders in council, would suffer me to perish with hunger\".","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed overview of Kepler's activities in 1617 and 1619, including his professional decisions, publications, and beliefs. It captures the essence of Kepler's work during these years, emphasizing his mathematical endeavors and astrological musings. The summary effectively encapsulates the key events and ideas presented in the text, offering a comprehensive understanding of Kepler's activities and beliefs during this period.","original_text":"In 1617 he was invited to Italy to succeed Magini as Professor of Mathematics at Bologna. Galileo urged him to accept the post, but he excused himself on the ground that he was a German and brought up among Germans with such liberty of speech as he thought might get him into trouble in Italy. In 1619 Matthias died and was succeeded by Ferdinand III, who again retained Kepler in his post. In the same year Kepler reprinted his \"Mysterium Cosmographicum,\" and also published his \"Harmonics\" in five books dedicated to James I of England. \"The first geometrical, on the origin and demonstration of the laws of the figures which produce harmonious proportions; the second, architectonical, on figurate geometry and the congruence of plane and solid regular figures; the third, properly Harmonic, on the derivation of musical proportions from figures, and on the nature and distinction of things relating to song, in opposition to the old theories; the fourth, metaphysical, psychological, and astrological, on the mental essence of Harmonics, and of their kinds in the world, especially on the harmony of rays emanating on the earth from the heavenly bodies, and on their effect in nature and on the sublunary and human soul; the fifth, astronomical and metaphysical, on the very exquisite Harmonics of the celestial motions and the origin of the excentricities in harmonious proportions.\" The extravagance of his fancies does not appear until the fourth book, in which he reiterates the statement that he was forced to adopt his astrological opinions from direct and positive observation. He despises \"The common herd of prophesiers who describe the operations of the stars as if they were a sort of deities, the lords of heaven and earth, and producing everything at their pleasure. They never trouble themselves to consider what means the stars have of working any effects among us on the earth whilst they remain in the sky and send down nothing to us which is obvious to the senses, except rays of light.\" His own notion is \"Like one who listens to a sweet melodious song, and by the gladness of his countenance, by his voice, and by the beating of his hand or foot attuned to the music, gives token that he perceives and approves the harmony: just so does sublunary nature, with the notable and evident emotion of the bowels of the earth, bear like witness to the same feelings, especially at those times when the rays of the planets form harmonious configurations on the earth,\" and again \"The earth is not an animal like a dog, ready at every nod; but more like a bull or an elephant, slow to become angry, and so much the more furious when incensed.\" He seems to have believed the earth to be actually a living animal, as witness the following: \"If anyone who has climbed the peaks of the highest mountains, throw a stone down their very deep clefts, a sound is heard from them; or if he throw it into one of the mountain lakes, which beyond doubt are bottomless, a storm will immediately arise, just as when you thrust a straw into the ear or nose of a ticklish animal, it shakes its head, or runs shudderingly away. What so like breathing, especially of those fish who draw water into their mouths and spout it out again through their gills, as that wonderful tide! For although it is so regulated according to the course of the moon, that, in the preface to my 'Commentaries on Mars,' I have mentioned it as probable that the waters are attracted by the moon, as iron by the loadstone, yet if anyone uphold that the earth regulates its breathing according to the motion of the sun and moon, as animals have daily and nightly alternations of sleep and waking, I shall not think his philosophy unworthy of being listened to; especially if any flexible parts should be discovered in the depths of the earth, to supply the functions of lungs or gills.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's activities in 1617 and 1619, focusing on his career advancements, publications, and astrological beliefs. It provides a detailed overview of his interactions with Galileo, his decision to decline the position in Italy, and his publications, particularly the 'Harmonics' series. The summary also captures Kepler's astrological views and his analogies regarding the earth's behavior, showcasing a comprehensive understanding of the text.","original_text":"In 1617 he was invited to Italy to succeed Magini as Professor of Mathematics at Bologna. Galileo urged him to accept the post, but he excused himself on the ground that he was a German and brought up among Germans with such liberty of speech as he thought might get him into trouble in Italy. In 1619 Matthias died and was succeeded by Ferdinand III, who again retained Kepler in his post. In the same year Kepler reprinted his \"Mysterium Cosmographicum,\" and also published his \"Harmonics\" in five books dedicated to James I of England. \"The first geometrical, on the origin and demonstration of the laws of the figures which produce harmonious proportions; the second, architectonical, on figurate geometry and the congruence of plane and solid regular figures; the third, properly Harmonic, on the derivation of musical proportions from figures, and on the nature and distinction of things relating to song, in opposition to the old theories; the fourth, metaphysical, psychological, and astrological, on the mental essence of Harmonics, and of their kinds in the world, especially on the harmony of rays emanating on the earth from the heavenly bodies, and on their effect in nature and on the sublunary and human soul; the fifth, astronomical and metaphysical, on the very exquisite Harmonics of the celestial motions and the origin of the excentricities in harmonious proportions.\" The extravagance of his fancies does not appear until the fourth book, in which he reiterates the statement that he was forced to adopt his astrological opinions from direct and positive observation. He despises \"The common herd of prophesiers who describe the operations of the stars as if they were a sort of deities, the lords of heaven and earth, and producing everything at their pleasure. They never trouble themselves to consider what means the stars have of working any effects among us on the earth whilst they remain in the sky and send down nothing to us which is obvious to the senses, except rays of light.\" His own notion is \"Like one who listens to a sweet melodious song, and by the gladness of his countenance, by his voice, and by the beating of his hand or foot attuned to the music, gives token that he perceives and approves the harmony: just so does sublunary nature, with the notable and evident emotion of the bowels of the earth, bear like witness to the same feelings, especially at those times when the rays of the planets form harmonious configurations on the earth,\" and again \"The earth is not an animal like a dog, ready at every nod; but more like a bull or an elephant, slow to become angry, and so much the more furious when incensed.\" He seems to have believed the earth to be actually a living animal, as witness the following: \"If anyone who has climbed the peaks of the highest mountains, throw a stone down their very deep clefts, a sound is heard from them; or if he throw it into one of the mountain lakes, which beyond doubt are bottomless, a storm will immediately arise, just as when you thrust a straw into the ear or nose of a ticklish animal, it shakes its head, or runs shudderingly away. What so like breathing, especially of those fish who draw water into their mouths and spout it out again through their gills, as that wonderful tide! For although it is so regulated according to the course of the moon, that, in the preface to my 'Commentaries on Mars,' I have mentioned it as probable that the waters are attracted by the moon, as iron by the loadstone, yet if anyone uphold that the earth regulates its breathing according to the motion of the sun and moon, as animals have daily and nightly alternations of sleep and waking, I shall not think his philosophy unworthy of being listened to; especially if any flexible parts should be discovered in the depths of the earth, to supply the functions of lungs or gills.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's professional developments in 1617 and 1619, including his decision to decline a position in Italy, his continued employment under Ferdinand III, and the contents of his publication 'Harmonics.' It succinctly presents his interactions with Galileo, his astrological beliefs, and the diverse topics covered in his work.","original_text":"In 1617 he was invited to Italy to succeed Magini as Professor of Mathematics at Bologna. Galileo urged him to accept the post, but he excused himself on the ground that he was a German and brought up among Germans with such liberty of speech as he thought might get him into trouble in Italy. In 1619 Matthias died and was succeeded by Ferdinand III, who again retained Kepler in his post. In the same year Kepler reprinted his \"Mysterium Cosmographicum,\" and also published his \"Harmonics\" in five books dedicated to James I of England. \"The first geometrical, on the origin and demonstration of the laws of the figures which produce harmonious proportions; the second, architectonical, on figurate geometry and the congruence of plane and solid regular figures; the third, properly Harmonic, on the derivation of musical proportions from figures, and on the nature and distinction of things relating to song, in opposition to the old theories; the fourth, metaphysical, psychological, and astrological, on the mental essence of Harmonics, and of their kinds in the world, especially on the harmony of rays emanating on the earth from the heavenly bodies, and on their effect in nature and on the sublunary and human soul; the fifth, astronomical and metaphysical, on the very exquisite Harmonics of the celestial motions and the origin of the excentricities in harmonious proportions.\" The extravagance of his fancies does not appear until the fourth book, in which he reiterates the statement that he was forced to adopt his astrological opinions from direct and positive observation. He despises \"The common herd of prophesiers who describe the operations of the stars as if they were a sort of deities, the lords of heaven and earth, and producing everything at their pleasure. They never trouble themselves to consider what means the stars have of working any effects among us on the earth whilst they remain in the sky and send down nothing to us which is obvious to the senses, except rays of light.\" His own notion is \"Like one who listens to a sweet melodious song, and by the gladness of his countenance, by his voice, and by the beating of his hand or foot attuned to the music, gives token that he perceives and approves the harmony: just so does sublunary nature, with the notable and evident emotion of the bowels of the earth, bear like witness to the same feelings, especially at those times when the rays of the planets form harmonious configurations on the earth,\" and again \"The earth is not an animal like a dog, ready at every nod; but more like a bull or an elephant, slow to become angry, and so much the more furious when incensed.\" He seems to have believed the earth to be actually a living animal, as witness the following: \"If anyone who has climbed the peaks of the highest mountains, throw a stone down their very deep clefts, a sound is heard from them; or if he throw it into one of the mountain lakes, which beyond doubt are bottomless, a storm will immediately arise, just as when you thrust a straw into the ear or nose of a ticklish animal, it shakes its head, or runs shudderingly away. What so like breathing, especially of those fish who draw water into their mouths and spout it out again through their gills, as that wonderful tide! For although it is so regulated according to the course of the moon, that, in the preface to my 'Commentaries on Mars,' I have mentioned it as probable that the waters are attracted by the moon, as iron by the loadstone, yet if anyone uphold that the earth regulates its breathing according to the motion of the sun and moon, as animals have daily and nightly alternations of sleep and waking, I shall not think his philosophy unworthy of being listened to; especially if any flexible parts should be discovered in the depths of the earth, to supply the functions of lungs or gills.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's life and work in 1617, highlighting his invitation to Italy to replace Magini as the Professor of Mathematics at Bologna. Despite Galileo's encouragement, Kepler declined the offer due to concerns about potential conflicts arising from his German background and outspoken nature in Italy. In 1619, after Matthias' death, Ferdinand III succeeded him and retained Kepler in his position. During the same year, Kepler republished his \"Mysterium Cosmographicum\" and released \"Harmonics,\" a work dedicated to James I of England. The \"Harmonics\" comprised five books exploring various aspects of harmonious proportions, geometrical origins, figurate geometry, musical proportions, and celestial motions. Kepler's astrological beliefs, observations, and analogies between celestial phenomena and earthly responses are also discussed, showcasing his unique perspectives on the harmony of the universe. Additionally, Kepler's musings on the earth as a living entity, akin to an animal with breathing-like characteristics, are presented, reflecting his intricate and imaginative views on the natural world.","original_text":"In 1617 he was invited to Italy to succeed Magini as Professor of Mathematics at Bologna. Galileo urged him to accept the post, but he excused himself on the ground that he was a German and brought up among Germans with such liberty of speech as he thought might get him into trouble in Italy. In 1619 Matthias died and was succeeded by Ferdinand III, who again retained Kepler in his post. In the same year Kepler reprinted his \"Mysterium Cosmographicum,\" and also published his \"Harmonics\" in five books dedicated to James I of England. \"The first geometrical, on the origin and demonstration of the laws of the figures which produce harmonious proportions; the second, architectonical, on figurate geometry and the congruence of plane and solid regular figures; the third, properly Harmonic, on the derivation of musical proportions from figures, and on the nature and distinction of things relating to song, in opposition to the old theories; the fourth, metaphysical, psychological, and astrological, on the mental essence of Harmonics, and of their kinds in the world, especially on the harmony of rays emanating on the earth from the heavenly bodies, and on their effect in nature and on the sublunary and human soul; the fifth, astronomical and metaphysical, on the very exquisite Harmonics of the celestial motions and the origin of the excentricities in harmonious proportions.\" The extravagance of his fancies does not appear until the fourth book, in which he reiterates the statement that he was forced to adopt his astrological opinions from direct and positive observation. He despises \"The common herd of prophesiers who describe the operations of the stars as if they were a sort of deities, the lords of heaven and earth, and producing everything at their pleasure. They never trouble themselves to consider what means the stars have of working any effects among us on the earth whilst they remain in the sky and send down nothing to us which is obvious to the senses, except rays of light.\" His own notion is \"Like one who listens to a sweet melodious song, and by the gladness of his countenance, by his voice, and by the beating of his hand or foot attuned to the music, gives token that he perceives and approves the harmony: just so does sublunary nature, with the notable and evident emotion of the bowels of the earth, bear like witness to the same feelings, especially at those times when the rays of the planets form harmonious configurations on the earth,\" and again \"The earth is not an animal like a dog, ready at every nod; but more like a bull or an elephant, slow to become angry, and so much the more furious when incensed.\" He seems to have believed the earth to be actually a living animal, as witness the following: \"If anyone who has climbed the peaks of the highest mountains, throw a stone down their very deep clefts, a sound is heard from them; or if he throw it into one of the mountain lakes, which beyond doubt are bottomless, a storm will immediately arise, just as when you thrust a straw into the ear or nose of a ticklish animal, it shakes its head, or runs shudderingly away. What so like breathing, especially of those fish who draw water into their mouths and spout it out again through their gills, as that wonderful tide! For although it is so regulated according to the course of the moon, that, in the preface to my 'Commentaries on Mars,' I have mentioned it as probable that the waters are attracted by the moon, as iron by the loadstone, yet if anyone uphold that the earth regulates its breathing according to the motion of the sun and moon, as animals have daily and nightly alternations of sleep and waking, I shall not think his philosophy unworthy of being listened to; especially if any flexible parts should be discovered in the depths of the earth, to supply the functions of lungs or gills.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed overview of Kepler's discussion on astrology, his personal nativity details, the influence of planetary positions on weather changes, and his reflections on his studies and the support he received. It effectively captures the essence of the paragraph.","original_text":"In the same book Kepler enlarges again on his views in reference to the basis of astrology as concerned with nativities and the importance of planetary conjunctions. He gives particulars of his own nativity. \"Jupiter nearest the nonagesimal had passed by four degrees the trine of Saturn; the Sun and Venus in conjunction were moving from the latter towards the former, nearly in sextiles with both: they were also removing from quadratures with Mars, to which Mercury was closely approaching: the moon drew near to the trine of the same planet, close to the Bull's Eye even in latitude. The 25th degree of Gemini was rising, and the 22nd of Aquarius culminating. That there was this triple configuration on that day--namely the sextile of Saturn and the Sun, the sextile of Mars and Jupiter, and the quadrature of Mercury and Mars, is proved by the change of weather; for after a frost of some days, that very day became warmer, there was a thaw and a fall of rain.\" This alleged \"proof\" is interesting as it relies on the same principle which was held to justify the correction of an uncertain birth-time, by reference to illnesses, etc., met with later. Kepler however goes on to say, \"If I am to speak of the results of my studies, what, I pray, can I find in the sky, even remotely alluding to it? The learned confess that several not despicable branches of philosophy have been newly extricated or amended or brought to perfection by me: but here my constellations were, not Mercury from the East in the angle of the seventh, and in quadratures with Mars, but Copernicus, but Tycho Brahe, without whose books of observations everything now set by me in the clearest light must have remained buried in darkness; not Saturn predominating Mercury, but my lords the Emperors Rudolph and Matthias, not Capricorn the house of Saturn but Upper Austria, the house of the Emperor, and the ready and unexampled bounty of his nobles to my petition. Here is that corner, not the western one of the horoscope, but on the earth whither, by permission of my Imperial master, I have betaken myself from a too uneasy Court; and whence, during these years of my life, which now tends towards its setting, emanate these Harmonics and the other matters on which I am engaged.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's exploration of astrology, his own nativity, the correlation between celestial positions and earthly occurrences, and his gratitude towards Emperor Rudolph and Matthias for their support.","original_text":"In the same book Kepler enlarges again on his views in reference to the basis of astrology as concerned with nativities and the importance of planetary conjunctions. He gives particulars of his own nativity. \"Jupiter nearest the nonagesimal had passed by four degrees the trine of Saturn; the Sun and Venus in conjunction were moving from the latter towards the former, nearly in sextiles with both: they were also removing from quadratures with Mars, to which Mercury was closely approaching: the moon drew near to the trine of the same planet, close to the Bull's Eye even in latitude. The 25th degree of Gemini was rising, and the 22nd of Aquarius culminating. That there was this triple configuration on that day--namely the sextile of Saturn and the Sun, the sextile of Mars and Jupiter, and the quadrature of Mercury and Mars, is proved by the change of weather; for after a frost of some days, that very day became warmer, there was a thaw and a fall of rain.\" This alleged \"proof\" is interesting as it relies on the same principle which was held to justify the correction of an uncertain birth-time, by reference to illnesses, etc., met with later. Kepler however goes on to say, \"If I am to speak of the results of my studies, what, I pray, can I find in the sky, even remotely alluding to it? The learned confess that several not despicable branches of philosophy have been newly extricated or amended or brought to perfection by me: but here my constellations were, not Mercury from the East in the angle of the seventh, and in quadratures with Mars, but Copernicus, but Tycho Brahe, without whose books of observations everything now set by me in the clearest light must have remained buried in darkness; not Saturn predominating Mercury, but my lords the Emperors Rudolph and Matthias, not Capricorn the house of Saturn but Upper Austria, the house of the Emperor, and the ready and unexampled bounty of his nobles to my petition. Here is that corner, not the western one of the horoscope, but on the earth whither, by permission of my Imperial master, I have betaken myself from a too uneasy Court; and whence, during these years of my life, which now tends towards its setting, emanate these Harmonics and the other matters on which I am engaged.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's discussion on astrology, his birth chart analysis, the impact of planetary configurations on weather changes, his reflections on his studies, and his gratitude towards supporters.","original_text":"In the same book Kepler enlarges again on his views in reference to the basis of astrology as concerned with nativities and the importance of planetary conjunctions. He gives particulars of his own nativity. \"Jupiter nearest the nonagesimal had passed by four degrees the trine of Saturn; the Sun and Venus in conjunction were moving from the latter towards the former, nearly in sextiles with both: they were also removing from quadratures with Mars, to which Mercury was closely approaching: the moon drew near to the trine of the same planet, close to the Bull's Eye even in latitude. The 25th degree of Gemini was rising, and the 22nd of Aquarius culminating. That there was this triple configuration on that day--namely the sextile of Saturn and the Sun, the sextile of Mars and Jupiter, and the quadrature of Mercury and Mars, is proved by the change of weather; for after a frost of some days, that very day became warmer, there was a thaw and a fall of rain.\" This alleged \"proof\" is interesting as it relies on the same principle which was held to justify the correction of an uncertain birth-time, by reference to illnesses, etc., met with later. Kepler however goes on to say, \"If I am to speak of the results of my studies, what, I pray, can I find in the sky, even remotely alluding to it? The learned confess that several not despicable branches of philosophy have been newly extricated or amended or brought to perfection by me: but here my constellations were, not Mercury from the East in the angle of the seventh, and in quadratures with Mars, but Copernicus, but Tycho Brahe, without whose books of observations everything now set by me in the clearest light must have remained buried in darkness; not Saturn predominating Mercury, but my lords the Emperors Rudolph and Matthias, not Capricorn the house of Saturn but Upper Austria, the house of the Emperor, and the ready and unexampled bounty of his nobles to my petition. Here is that corner, not the western one of the horoscope, but on the earth whither, by permission of my Imperial master, I have betaken myself from a too uneasy Court; and whence, during these years of my life, which now tends towards its setting, emanate these Harmonics and the other matters on which I am engaged.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In this paragraph from the book \"Kepler\" by Walter W. Bryant, the author discusses Kepler's views on astrology, focusing on nativities and planetary conjunctions. Kepler provides details of his own nativity, describing the positions of various planets and their configurations at his birth. He then reflects on the impact of these planetary positions on weather changes, illustrating a belief in astrological influences. Kepler contrasts his astrological observations with his scientific achievements, acknowledging the contributions of Copernicus and Tycho Brahe to his work. He emphasizes the support he received from Emperor Rudolph and Matthias, attributing his success to their patronage. Kepler reflects on his current position in Upper Austria, away from the court, where he continues his studies and research, particularly in the field of Harmonics.","original_text":"In the same book Kepler enlarges again on his views in reference to the basis of astrology as concerned with nativities and the importance of planetary conjunctions. He gives particulars of his own nativity. \"Jupiter nearest the nonagesimal had passed by four degrees the trine of Saturn; the Sun and Venus in conjunction were moving from the latter towards the former, nearly in sextiles with both: they were also removing from quadratures with Mars, to which Mercury was closely approaching: the moon drew near to the trine of the same planet, close to the Bull's Eye even in latitude. The 25th degree of Gemini was rising, and the 22nd of Aquarius culminating. That there was this triple configuration on that day--namely the sextile of Saturn and the Sun, the sextile of Mars and Jupiter, and the quadrature of Mercury and Mars, is proved by the change of weather; for after a frost of some days, that very day became warmer, there was a thaw and a fall of rain.\" This alleged \"proof\" is interesting as it relies on the same principle which was held to justify the correction of an uncertain birth-time, by reference to illnesses, etc., met with later. Kepler however goes on to say, \"If I am to speak of the results of my studies, what, I pray, can I find in the sky, even remotely alluding to it? The learned confess that several not despicable branches of philosophy have been newly extricated or amended or brought to perfection by me: but here my constellations were, not Mercury from the East in the angle of the seventh, and in quadratures with Mars, but Copernicus, but Tycho Brahe, without whose books of observations everything now set by me in the clearest light must have remained buried in darkness; not Saturn predominating Mercury, but my lords the Emperors Rudolph and Matthias, not Capricorn the house of Saturn but Upper Austria, the house of the Emperor, and the ready and unexampled bounty of his nobles to my petition. Here is that corner, not the western one of the horoscope, but on the earth whither, by permission of my Imperial master, I have betaken myself from a too uneasy Court; and whence, during these years of my life, which now tends towards its setting, emanate these Harmonics and the other matters on which I am engaged.\"","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed overview of the paragraph, covering Kepler's Fifth Book, the introduction of the Third Law, Kepler's emotional response to the discovery, and the explanation in the 'Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy.' It effectively captures the essence of the text.","original_text":"The fifth book contains a great deal of nonsense about the harmony of the spheres; the notes contributed by the several planets are gravely set down, that of Mercury having the greatest resemblance to a melody, though perhaps more reminiscent of a bugle-call. Yet the book is not all worthless for it includes Kepler's Third Law, which he had diligently sought for years. In his own words, \"The proportion existing between the periodic times of any two planets is exactly the sesquiplicate proportion of the mean distances of the orbits,\" or as generally given, \"the squares of the periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances.\" Kepler was evidently transported with delight and wrote, \"What I prophesied two and twenty years ago, as soon as I discovered the five solids among the heavenly orbits,--what I firmly believed long before I had seen Ptolemy's 'Harmonics'--what I had promised my friends in the title of this book, which I named before I was sure of my discovery,--what sixteen years ago I urged as a thing to be sought,--that for which I joined Tycho Brahe, for which I settled in Prague, for which I have devoted the best part of my life to astronomical computations, at length I have brought to light, and have recognised its truth beyond my most sanguine expectations. Great as is the absolute nature of Harmonics, with all its details as set forth in my third book, it is all found among the celestial motions, not indeed in the manner which I imagined (that is not the least part of my delight), but in another very different, and yet most perfect and excellent. It is now eighteen months since I got the first glimpse of light, three months since the dawn, very few days since the unveiled sun, most admirable to gaze on, burst out upon me. Nothing holds me; I will indulge in my sacred fury; I will triumph over mankind by the honest confession that I have stolen the golden vases of the Egyptians to build up a tabernacle for my God far away from the confines of Egypt. If you forgive me, I rejoice, if you are angry, I can bear it; the die is cast, the book is written; to be read either now or by posterity, I care not which; it may well wait a century for a reader, as God has waited six thousand years for an observer.\" He gives the date 15th May, 1618, for the completion of his discovery. In his \"Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy,\" he gives his own idea as to the reason for this Third Law. \"Four causes concur for lengthening the periodic time. First, the length of the path; secondly, the weight or quantity of matter to be carried; thirdly, the degree of strength of the moving virtue; fourthly, the bulk or space into which is spread out the matter to be moved. The orbital paths of the planets are in the simple ratio of the distances; the weights or quantities of matter in different planets are in the subduplicate ratio of the same distances, as has been already proved; so that with every increase of distance a planet has more matter and therefore is moved more slowly, and accumulates more time in its revolution, requiring already, as it did, more time by reason of the length of the way. The third and fourth causes compensate each other in a comparison of different planets; the simple and subduplicate proportion compound the sesquiplicate proportion, which therefore is the ratio of the periodic times.\" The only part of this \"explanation\" that is true is that the paths are in the simple ratio of the distances, the \"proof\" so confidently claimed being of the circular kind commonly known as \"begging the question\". It was reserved for Newton to establish the Laws of Motion, to find the law of force that would constrain a planet to obey Kepler's first and second Laws, and to prove that it must therefore also obey the third.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the contents of the fifth book by Kepler, highlighting the inclusion of Kepler's Third Law amidst what is described as nonsensical content about the harmony of the spheres. The law states that the squares of the periodic times of planets are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances of their orbits. Kepler expresses immense joy and fulfillment upon discovering and confirming this law after years of dedicated effort. He explains the reasons behind the lengthening of the periodic time of planets, attributing it to factors like the length of the path, the quantity of matter, the strength of the moving force, and the space occupied by the matter. However, it is noted that Newton later refined these ideas and established the Laws of Motion, connecting them to Kepler's laws.","original_text":"The fifth book contains a great deal of nonsense about the harmony of the spheres; the notes contributed by the several planets are gravely set down, that of Mercury having the greatest resemblance to a melody, though perhaps more reminiscent of a bugle-call. Yet the book is not all worthless for it includes Kepler's Third Law, which he had diligently sought for years. In his own words, \"The proportion existing between the periodic times of any two planets is exactly the sesquiplicate proportion of the mean distances of the orbits,\" or as generally given, \"the squares of the periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances.\" Kepler was evidently transported with delight and wrote, \"What I prophesied two and twenty years ago, as soon as I discovered the five solids among the heavenly orbits,--what I firmly believed long before I had seen Ptolemy's 'Harmonics'--what I had promised my friends in the title of this book, which I named before I was sure of my discovery,--what sixteen years ago I urged as a thing to be sought,--that for which I joined Tycho Brahe, for which I settled in Prague, for which I have devoted the best part of my life to astronomical computations, at length I have brought to light, and have recognised its truth beyond my most sanguine expectations. Great as is the absolute nature of Harmonics, with all its details as set forth in my third book, it is all found among the celestial motions, not indeed in the manner which I imagined (that is not the least part of my delight), but in another very different, and yet most perfect and excellent. It is now eighteen months since I got the first glimpse of light, three months since the dawn, very few days since the unveiled sun, most admirable to gaze on, burst out upon me. Nothing holds me; I will indulge in my sacred fury; I will triumph over mankind by the honest confession that I have stolen the golden vases of the Egyptians to build up a tabernacle for my God far away from the confines of Egypt. If you forgive me, I rejoice, if you are angry, I can bear it; the die is cast, the book is written; to be read either now or by posterity, I care not which; it may well wait a century for a reader, as God has waited six thousand years for an observer.\" He gives the date 15th May, 1618, for the completion of his discovery. In his \"Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy,\" he gives his own idea as to the reason for this Third Law. \"Four causes concur for lengthening the periodic time. First, the length of the path; secondly, the weight or quantity of matter to be carried; thirdly, the degree of strength of the moving virtue; fourthly, the bulk or space into which is spread out the matter to be moved. The orbital paths of the planets are in the simple ratio of the distances; the weights or quantities of matter in different planets are in the subduplicate ratio of the same distances, as has been already proved; so that with every increase of distance a planet has more matter and therefore is moved more slowly, and accumulates more time in its revolution, requiring already, as it did, more time by reason of the length of the way. The third and fourth causes compensate each other in a comparison of different planets; the simple and subduplicate proportion compound the sesquiplicate proportion, which therefore is the ratio of the periodic times.\" The only part of this \"explanation\" that is true is that the paths are in the simple ratio of the distances, the \"proof\" so confidently claimed being of the circular kind commonly known as \"begging the question\". It was reserved for Newton to establish the Laws of Motion, to find the law of force that would constrain a planet to obey Kepler's first and second Laws, and to prove that it must therefore also obey the third.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the content of the fifth book by Kepler, highlighting its mix of valuable information and what the author perceives as nonsensical ideas. It mentions Kepler's Third Law, which states the relationship between the periodic times of planets and the mean distances of their orbits. Kepler expresses immense joy and fulfillment upon discovering and confirming this law after years of dedicated work. He reflects on his journey, the significance of his findings, and his willingness to face any criticism or praise for his work. Additionally, the text touches on Kepler's explanation of the reasons behind the Third Law, linking it to factors like path length, quantity of matter, moving force strength, and space occupied by matter. It concludes by noting that Newton later expanded on Kepler's laws and established the Laws of Motion.","original_text":"The fifth book contains a great deal of nonsense about the harmony of the spheres; the notes contributed by the several planets are gravely set down, that of Mercury having the greatest resemblance to a melody, though perhaps more reminiscent of a bugle-call. Yet the book is not all worthless for it includes Kepler's Third Law, which he had diligently sought for years. In his own words, \"The proportion existing between the periodic times of any two planets is exactly the sesquiplicate proportion of the mean distances of the orbits,\" or as generally given, \"the squares of the periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances.\" Kepler was evidently transported with delight and wrote, \"What I prophesied two and twenty years ago, as soon as I discovered the five solids among the heavenly orbits,--what I firmly believed long before I had seen Ptolemy's 'Harmonics'--what I had promised my friends in the title of this book, which I named before I was sure of my discovery,--what sixteen years ago I urged as a thing to be sought,--that for which I joined Tycho Brahe, for which I settled in Prague, for which I have devoted the best part of my life to astronomical computations, at length I have brought to light, and have recognised its truth beyond my most sanguine expectations. Great as is the absolute nature of Harmonics, with all its details as set forth in my third book, it is all found among the celestial motions, not indeed in the manner which I imagined (that is not the least part of my delight), but in another very different, and yet most perfect and excellent. It is now eighteen months since I got the first glimpse of light, three months since the dawn, very few days since the unveiled sun, most admirable to gaze on, burst out upon me. Nothing holds me; I will indulge in my sacred fury; I will triumph over mankind by the honest confession that I have stolen the golden vases of the Egyptians to build up a tabernacle for my God far away from the confines of Egypt. If you forgive me, I rejoice, if you are angry, I can bear it; the die is cast, the book is written; to be read either now or by posterity, I care not which; it may well wait a century for a reader, as God has waited six thousand years for an observer.\" He gives the date 15th May, 1618, for the completion of his discovery. In his \"Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy,\" he gives his own idea as to the reason for this Third Law. \"Four causes concur for lengthening the periodic time. First, the length of the path; secondly, the weight or quantity of matter to be carried; thirdly, the degree of strength of the moving virtue; fourthly, the bulk or space into which is spread out the matter to be moved. The orbital paths of the planets are in the simple ratio of the distances; the weights or quantities of matter in different planets are in the subduplicate ratio of the same distances, as has been already proved; so that with every increase of distance a planet has more matter and therefore is moved more slowly, and accumulates more time in its revolution, requiring already, as it did, more time by reason of the length of the way. The third and fourth causes compensate each other in a comparison of different planets; the simple and subduplicate proportion compound the sesquiplicate proportion, which therefore is the ratio of the periodic times.\" The only part of this \"explanation\" that is true is that the paths are in the simple ratio of the distances, the \"proof\" so confidently claimed being of the circular kind commonly known as \"begging the question\". It was reserved for Newton to establish the Laws of Motion, to find the law of force that would constrain a planet to obey Kepler's first and second Laws, and to prove that it must therefore also obey the third.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses the content of the fifth book by Kepler, highlighting a mix of valuable insights and what the author, Walter W. Bryant, deems as nonsensical ideas about the harmony of the spheres. Despite the questionable content, the book introduces Kepler's Third Law, a significant discovery he had pursued diligently for years. The law states that the ratio between the periodic times of any two planets is precisely the sesquiplicate proportion of the mean distances of their orbits, commonly expressed as \"the squares of the periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances.\" Kepler expresses immense joy and fulfillment upon this discovery, reflecting on his long journey and dedication to astronomy. He acknowledges the complexity and beauty of celestial motions, admitting to being inspired by ancient knowledge. Kepler's revelation is dated 15th May, 1618, and he further explains the rationale behind the Third Law, linking it to factors like path length, matter quantity, moving force strength, and spatial distribution of matter. While some aspects of his explanation are deemed accurate, such as the relationship between paths and distances, Bryant notes that Kepler's claims lack solid proof and credits Sir Isaac Newton with later establishing the Laws of Motion to validate Kepler's laws.","original_text":"The fifth book contains a great deal of nonsense about the harmony of the spheres; the notes contributed by the several planets are gravely set down, that of Mercury having the greatest resemblance to a melody, though perhaps more reminiscent of a bugle-call. Yet the book is not all worthless for it includes Kepler's Third Law, which he had diligently sought for years. In his own words, \"The proportion existing between the periodic times of any two planets is exactly the sesquiplicate proportion of the mean distances of the orbits,\" or as generally given, \"the squares of the periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances.\" Kepler was evidently transported with delight and wrote, \"What I prophesied two and twenty years ago, as soon as I discovered the five solids among the heavenly orbits,--what I firmly believed long before I had seen Ptolemy's 'Harmonics'--what I had promised my friends in the title of this book, which I named before I was sure of my discovery,--what sixteen years ago I urged as a thing to be sought,--that for which I joined Tycho Brahe, for which I settled in Prague, for which I have devoted the best part of my life to astronomical computations, at length I have brought to light, and have recognised its truth beyond my most sanguine expectations. Great as is the absolute nature of Harmonics, with all its details as set forth in my third book, it is all found among the celestial motions, not indeed in the manner which I imagined (that is not the least part of my delight), but in another very different, and yet most perfect and excellent. It is now eighteen months since I got the first glimpse of light, three months since the dawn, very few days since the unveiled sun, most admirable to gaze on, burst out upon me. Nothing holds me; I will indulge in my sacred fury; I will triumph over mankind by the honest confession that I have stolen the golden vases of the Egyptians to build up a tabernacle for my God far away from the confines of Egypt. If you forgive me, I rejoice, if you are angry, I can bear it; the die is cast, the book is written; to be read either now or by posterity, I care not which; it may well wait a century for a reader, as God has waited six thousand years for an observer.\" He gives the date 15th May, 1618, for the completion of his discovery. In his \"Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy,\" he gives his own idea as to the reason for this Third Law. \"Four causes concur for lengthening the periodic time. First, the length of the path; secondly, the weight or quantity of matter to be carried; thirdly, the degree of strength of the moving virtue; fourthly, the bulk or space into which is spread out the matter to be moved. The orbital paths of the planets are in the simple ratio of the distances; the weights or quantities of matter in different planets are in the subduplicate ratio of the same distances, as has been already proved; so that with every increase of distance a planet has more matter and therefore is moved more slowly, and accumulates more time in its revolution, requiring already, as it did, more time by reason of the length of the way. The third and fourth causes compensate each other in a comparison of different planets; the simple and subduplicate proportion compound the sesquiplicate proportion, which therefore is the ratio of the periodic times.\" The only part of this \"explanation\" that is true is that the paths are in the simple ratio of the distances, the \"proof\" so confidently claimed being of the circular kind commonly known as \"begging the question\". It was reserved for Newton to establish the Laws of Motion, to find the law of force that would constrain a planet to obey Kepler's first and second Laws, and to prove that it must therefore also obey the third.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Chapter V of Walter W. Bryant's book on Kepler delves into the significant contributions and theories developed by Johannes Kepler, a key figure in the scientific revolution of the 17th century. The chapter begins by contextualizing Kepler's work within the broader scientific discourse of his time, particularly highlighting the influence of Gilbert of Colchester's research on magnetism. Kepler, inspired by Gilbert, sought to apply the concept of magnetic attraction to celestial bodies, proposing a theory of gravitational attraction that prefigured Newton's law of universal gravitation.\n\nKepler argued against the prevailing notions of his time that denied the Earth's rotation and the gravitational attraction between celestial bodies. He posited that gravity is a mutual affection between cognate bodies, leading to the attraction of bodies towards the Earth, regardless of the Earth's position in the universe. He suggested that the Moon's gravitational pull affects the Earth's waters, causing tides, a theory that was revolutionary for its time.\n\nThe chapter then transitions to Kepler's meticulous work on the motion of Mars, which became his most notable contribution to astronomy. Kepler challenged the accuracy of existing models of Mars' orbit, which were based on the assumption of circular orbits and uniform motion. Through painstaking observation and calculation, he discovered that Mars' orbit was not a perfect circle but an ellipse, with the Sun at one of the foci. This realization led to the formulation of Kepler's first two laws of planetary motion: that planets move in elliptical orbits with the Sun at one focus, and that a line segment joining a planet to the Sun sweeps out equal areas during equal intervals of time.\n\nKepler's work on Mars was groundbreaking, not only for its immediate implications for the understanding of planetary motion but also for its challenge to the long-held belief in the perfection of circular orbits. His dedication and methodical approach to resolving the discrepancies in Mars' observed and calculated positions underscored the importance of empirical evidence in scientific inquiry.\n\nThe chapter also touches on Kepler's personal struggles, including financial difficulties, the death of his wife and son, and his eventual move to Linz. Despite these challenges, Kepler's passion for astronomy and his commitment to understanding the universe's harmonies remained undiminished. He continued to work on the Harmonics, where he explored the mathematical relationships between planetary motions, further solidifying his legacy as a pioneer of modern astronomy.\n\nIn summary, Chapter V of Bryant's book on Kepler provides a detailed account of Kepler's revolutionary theories of planetary motion, his methodical approach to scientific research, and the personal and professional challenges he faced. Kepler's work laid the foundational principles for Newton's theory of universal gravitation and marked a significant departure from the classical understanding of the cosmos, making him a central figure in the history of astronomy.","original_text":"When Gilbert of Colchester, in his \"New Philosophy,\" founded on his researches in magnetism, was dealing with tides, he did not suggest that the moon attracted the water, but that \"subterranean spirits and humours, rising in sympathy with the moon, cause the sea also to rise and flow to the shores and up rivers\". It appears that an idea, presented in some such way as this, was more readily received than a plain statement. This so-called philosophical method was, in fact, very generally applied, and Kepler, who shared Galileo's admiration for Gilbert's work, adopted it in his own attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets. The general idea of \"gravity\" opposed the hypothesis of the rotation of the earth on the ground that loose objects would fly off: moreover, the latest refinements of the old system of planetary motions necessitated their orbits being described about a mere empty point. Kepler very strongly combated these notions, pointing out the absurdity of the conclusions to which they tended, and proceeded in set terms to describe his own theory.\n\n\"Every corporeal substance, so far forth as it is corporeal, has a natural fitness for resting in every place where it may be situated by itself beyond the sphere of influence of a body cognate with it. Gravity is a mutual affection between cognate bodies towards union or conjunction (similar in kind to the magnetic virtue), so that the earth attracts a stone much rather than the stone seeks the earth. Heavy bodies (if we begin by assuming the earth to be in the centre of the world) are not carried to the centre of the world in its quality of centre of the world, but as to the centre of a cognate round body, namely, the earth; so that wheresoever the earth may be placed, or whithersoever it may be carried by its animal faculty, heavy bodies will always be carried towards it. If the earth were not round, heavy bodies would not tend from every side in a straight line towards the centre of the earth, but to different points from different sides. If two stones were placed in any part of the world near each other, and beyond the sphere of influence of a third cognate body, these stones, like two magnetic needles, would come together in the intermediate point, each approaching the other by a space proportional to the comparative mass of the other. If the moon and earth were not retained in their orbits by their animal force or some other equivalent, the earth would mount to the moon by a fifty-fourth part of their distance, and the moon fall towards the earth through the other fifty-three parts, and they would there meet, assuming, however, that the substance of both is of the same density. If the earth should cease to attract its waters to itself all the waters of the sea would he raised and would flow to the body of the moon. The sphere of the attractive virtue which is in the moon extends as far as the earth, and entices up the waters; but as the moon flies rapidly across the zenith, and the waters cannot follow so quickly, a flow of the ocean is occasioned in the torrid zone towards the westward. If the attractive virtue of the moon extends as far as the earth, it follows with greater reason that the attractive virtue of the earth extends as far as the moon and much farther; and, in short, nothing which consists of earthly substance anyhow constituted although thrown up to any height, can ever escape the powerful operation of this attractive virtue. Nothing which consists of corporeal matter is absolutely light, but that is comparatively lighter which is rarer, either by its own nature, or by accidental heat. And it is not to be thought that light bodies are escaping to the surface of the universe while they are carried upwards, or that they are not attracted by the earth. They are attracted, but in a less degree, and so are driven outwards by the heavy bodies; which being done, they stop, and are kept by the earth in their own place. But although the attractive virtue of the earth extends upwards, as has been said, so very far, yet if any stone should be at a distance great enough to become sensible compared with the earth's diameter, it is true that on the motion of the earth such a stone would not follow altogether; its own force of resistance would be combined with the attractive force of the earth, and thus it would extricate itself in some degree from the motion of the earth.\" The above passage from the Introduction to Kepler's \"Commentaries on the Motion of Mars,\" always regarded as his most valuable work, must have been known to Newton, so that no such incident as the fall of an apple was required to provide a necessary and sufficient explanation of the genesis of his Theory of Universal Gravitation. Kepler's glimpse at such a theory could have been no more than a glimpse, for he went no further with it. This seems a pity, as it is far less fanciful than many of his ideas, though not free from the \"virtues\" and \"animal faculties,\" that correspond to Gilbert's \"spirits and humours\". We must, however, proceed to the subject of Mars, which was, as before noted, the first important investigation entrusted to Kepler on his arrival at Prague.\n\nThe time taken from one opposition of Mars to the next is decidedly unequal at different parts of his orbit, so that many oppositions must be used to determine the mean motion. The ancients had noticed that what was called the \"second inequality,\" due as we now know to the orbital motion of the earth, only vanished when earth, sun, and planet were in line, i.e. at the planet's opposition; therefore they used oppositions to determine the mean motion, but deemed it necessary to apply a correction to the true opposition to reduce to mean opposition, thus sacrificing part of the advantage of using oppositions. Tycho and Longomontanus had followed this method in their calculations from Tycho's twenty years' observations. Their aim was to find a position of the \"equant,\" such that these observations would show a constant angular motion about it; and that the computed positions would agree in latitude and longitude with the actual observed positions. When Kepler arrived he was told that their longitudes agreed within a couple of minutes of arc, but that something was wrong with the latitudes. He found, however, that even in longitude their positions showed discordances ten times as great as they admitted, and so, to clear the ground of assumptions as far as possible, he determined to use true oppositions. To this Tycho objected, and Kepler had great difficulty in convincing him that the new move would be any improvement, but undertook to prove to him by actual examples that a false position of the orbit could by adjusting the equant be made to fit the longitudes within five minutes of arc, while giving quite erroneous values of the latitudes and second inequalities. To avoid the possibility of further objection he carried out this demonstration separately for each of the systems of Ptolemy, Copernicus, and Tycho. For the new method he noticed that great accuracy was required in the reduction of the observed places of Mars to the ecliptic, and for this purpose the value obtained for the parallax by Tycho's assistants fell far short of the requisite accuracy. Kepler therefore was obliged to recompute the parallax from the original observations, as also the position of the line of nodes and the inclination of the orbit. The last he found to be constant, thus corroborating his theory that the plane of the orbit passed through the sun. He repeated his calculations no fewer than seventy times (and that before the invention of logarithms), and at length adopted values for the mean longitude and longitude of aphelion. He found no discordance greater than two minutes of arc in Tycho's observed longitudes in opposition, but the latitudes, and also longitudes in other parts of the orbit were much more discordant, and he found to his chagrin that four years' work was practically wasted. Before making a fresh start he looked for some simplification of the labour; and determined to adopt Ptolemy's assumption known as the principle of the bisection of the excentricity. Hitherto, since Ptolemy had given no reason for this assumption, Kepler had preferred not to make it, only taking for granted that the centre was at some point on the line called the excentricity (see Figs. 1, 2).\n\nA marked improvement in residuals was the result of this step, proving, so far, the correctness of Ptolemy's principle, but there still remained discordances amounting to eight minutes of arc. Copernicus, who had no idea of the accuracy obtainable in observations, would probably have regarded such an agreement as remarkably good; but Kepler refused to admit the possibility of an error of eight minutes in any of Tycho's observations. He thereupon vowed to construct from these eight minutes a new planetary theory that should account for them all. His repeated failures had by this time convinced him that no uniformly described circle could possibly represent the motion of Mars. Either the orbit could not be circular, or else the angular velocity could not be constant about any point whatever. He determined to attack the \"second inequality,\" i.e. the optical illusion caused by the earth's annual motion, but first revived an old idea of his own that for the sake of uniformity the sun, or as he preferred to regard it, the earth, should have an equant as well as the planets. From the irregularities of the solar motion he soon found that this was the case, and that the motion was uniform about a point on the line from the sun to the centre of the earth's orbit, such that the centre bisected the distance from the sun to the \"Equant\"; this fully supported Ptolemy's principle. Clearly then the earth's linear velocity could not be constant, and Kepler was encouraged to revive another of his speculations as to a force which was weaker at greater distances. He found the velocity greater at the nearer apse, so that the time over an equal arc at either apse was proportional to the distance. He conjectured that this might prove to be true for arcs at all parts of the orbit, and to test this he divided the orbit into 360 equal parts, and calculated the distances to the points of division. Archimedes had obtained an approximation to the area of a circle by dividing it radially into a very large number of triangles, and Kepler had this device in mind. He found that the sums of successive distances from his 360 points were approximately proportional to the times from point to point, and was thus enabled to represent much more accurately the annual motion of the earth which produced the second inequality of Mars, to whose motion he now returned. Three points are sufficient to define a circle, so he took three observed positions of Mars and found a circle; he then took three other positions, but obtained a different circle, and a third set gave yet another. It thus began to appear that the orbit could not be a circle. He next tried to divide into 360 equal parts, as he had in the case of the earth, but the sums of distances failed to fit the times, and he realised that the sums of distances were not a good measure of the area of successive triangles. He noted, however, that the errors at the apses were now smaller than with a central circular orbit, and of the opposite sign, so he determined to try whether an oval orbit would fit better, following a suggestion made by Purbach in the case of Mercury, whose orbit is even more eccentric than that of Mars, though observations were too scanty to form the foundation of any theory. Kepler gave his fancy play in the choice of an oval, greater at one end than the other, endeavouring to satisfy some ideas about epicyclic motion, but could not find a satisfactory curve. He then had the fortunate idea of trying an ellipse with the same axis as his tentative oval. Mars now appeared too slow at the apses instead of too quick, so obviously some intermediate ellipse must be sought between the trial ellipse and the circle on the same axis. At this point the \"long arm of coincidence\" came into play. Half-way between the apses lay the mean distance, and at this position the error was half the distance between the ellipse and the circle, amounting to .00429 of a radius. With these figures in his mind, Kepler looked up the greatest optical inequality of Mars, the angle between the straight lines from Mars to the Sun and to the centre of the circle.[3] The secant of this angle was 1.00429, so that he noted that an ellipse reduced from the circle in the ratio of 1.00429 to 1 would fit the motion of Mars at the mean distance as well as the apses.\n[Footnote 3: This is clearly a maximum at AMC in Fig. 2, when its tangent AC/CM = the eccentricity.]\n\nIt is often said that a coincidence like this only happens to somebody who \"deserves his luck,\" but this simply means that recognition is essential to the coincidence. In the same way the appearance of one of a large number of people mentioned is hailed as a case of the old adage \"Talk of the devil, etc.,\" ignoring all the people who failed to appear. No one, however, will consider Kepler unduly favoured. His genius, in his case certainly \"an infinite capacity for taking pains,\" enabled him out of his medley of hypotheses, mainly unsound, by dint of enormous labour and patience, to arrive thus at the first two of the laws which established his title of \"Legislator of the Heavens\".\nFIGURES EXPLANATORY OF KEPLER'S THEORY OF THE MOTION OF MARS.\n[Illustration: FIG. 1.]\n_______ /       \\ /         \\ |           | |___________| Q|  E  C  A  |P |           | \\         / \\_______/\n[Illustration: FIG. 2.]\n___M___ /___|\\__\\ //  N|\\\\ \\\\ |/    | \\\\ \\| |_____|__\\\\_| Q| E   C   A |P |\\    |    /| \\\\___|___// \\___|___/\n[Transcriber's Note: Approximate renditions of these figures are provided. Fig. 1 is a circle. Fig. 2 is a circle which contains an ellipse, tangent to the circle at Q and P. Line segments from M (on the circle) and N (on the ellipse) meet at point A.]\nFIG. 1.--In Ptolemy's excentric theory, A may be taken to represent the earth, C the centre of a planet's orbit, and E the equant, P (perigee) and Q (apogee) being the apses of the orbit. Ptolemy's idea was that uniform motion in a circle must be provided, and since the motion was not uniform about the earth, A could not coincide with C; and since the motion still failed to be uniform about A or C, some point E must be found about which the motion should be uniform.\n\nFIG. 2.--This is not drawn to scale, but is intended to illustrate Kepler's modification of Ptolemy's excentric. Kepler found velocities at P and Q proportional not to AP and AQ but to AQ and AP, or to EP and EQ if EC = CA (bisection of the excentricity). The velocity at M was wrong, and AM appeared too great. Kepler's first ellipse had M moved too near C. The distance AC is much exaggerated in the figure, as also is MN. AN = CP, the radius of the circle. MN should be .00429 of the radius, and MC/NC should be 1.00429. The velocity at N appeared to be proportional to EN ( = AN). Kepler concluded that Mars moved round PNQ, so that the area described about A (the sun) was equal in equal times, A being the focus of the ellipse PNQ. The angular velocity is not quite constant about E, the equant or empty focus, but the difference could hardly have been detected in Kepler's time.\n\nKepler's improved determination of the earth's orbit was obtained by plotting the different positions of the earth corresponding to successive rotations of Mars, i.e. intervals of 687 days. At each of these the date of the year would give the angle MSE (Mars-Sun-Earth), and Tycho's observation the angle MES. So the triangle could be solved except for scale, and the ratio of SE to SM would give the distance of Mars from the sun in terms of that of the earth. Measuring from a fixed position of Mars (e.g. perihelion), this gave the variation of SE, showing the earth's inequality. Measuring from a fixed position of the earth, it would give similarly a series of positions of Mars, which, though lying not far from the circle whose diameter was the axis of Mars' orbit, joining perihelion and aphelion, always fell inside the circle except at those two points. It was a long time before it dawned upon Kepler that the simplest figure falling within the circle except at the two extremities of the diameter, was an ellipse, and it is not clear why his first attempt with an ellipse should have been just as much too narrow as the circle was too wide. The fact remains that he recognised suddenly that halving this error was tantamount to reducing the circle to the ellipse whose eccentricity was that of the old theory, i.e. that in which the sun would be in one focus and the equant in the other.\nHaving now fitted the ends of both major and minor axes of the ellipse, he leaped to the conclusion that the orbit would fit everywhere.\nThe practical effect of his clearing of the \"second inequality\" was to refer the orbit of Mars directly to the sun, and he found that the area between successive distances of Mars from the sun (instead of the sum of the distances) was strictly proportional to the time taken, in short, equal areas were described in equal times (2nd Law) when referred to the sun in the focus of the ellipse (1st Law).\n\nHe announced that (1) The planet describes an ellipse, the sun being in one focus; and (2) The straight line joining the planet to the sun sweeps out equal areas in any two equal intervals of time. These are Kepler's first and second Laws though not discovered in that order, and it was at once clear that Ptolemy's \"bisection of the excentricity\" simply amounted to the fact that the centre of an ellipse bisects the distance between the foci, the sun being in one focus and the angular velocity being uniform about the empty focus. For so many centuries had the fetish of circular motion postponed discovery. It was natural that Kepler should assume that his laws would apply equally to all the planets, but the proof of this, as well as the reason underlying the laws, was only given by Newton, who approached the subject from a totally different standpoint.\n\nThis commentary on Mars was published in 1609, the year of the invention of the telescope, and Kepler petitioned the Emperor for further funds to enable him to complete the study of the other planets, but once more there was delay; in 1612 Rudolph died, and his brother Matthias who succeeded him, cared very little for astronomy or even astrology, though Kepler was reappointed to his post of Imperial Mathematician. He left Prague to take up a permanent professorship at the University of Linz. His own account of the circumstances is gloomy enough. He says, \"In the first place I could get no money from the Court, and my wife, who had for a long time been suffering from low spirits and despondency, was taken violently ill towards the end of 1610, with the Hungarian fever, epilepsy and phrenitis. She was scarcely convalescent when all my three children were at once attacked with smallpox. Leopold with his army occupied the town beyond the river just as I lost the dearest of my sons, him whose nativity you will find in my book on the new star. The town on this side of the river where I lived was harassed by the Bohemian troops, whose new levies were insubordinate and insolent; to complete the whole, the Austrian army brought the plague with them into the city. I went into Austria and endeavoured to procure the situation which I now hold. Returning in June, I found my wife in a decline from her grief at the death of her son, and on the eve of an infectious fever, and I lost her also within eleven days of my return. Then came fresh annoyance, of course, and her fortune was to be divided with my step-sisters. The Emperor Rudolph would not agree to my departure; vain hopes were given me of being paid from Saxony; my time and money were wasted together, till on the death of the Emperor in 1612, I was named again by his successor, and suffered to depart to Linz.\"\n\nBeing thus left a widower with a ten-year-old daughter Susanna, and a boy Louis of half her age, he looked for a second wife to take charge of them. He has given an account of eleven ladies whose suitability he considered. The first, an intimate friend of his first wife, ultimately declined; one was too old, another an invalid, another too proud of her birth and quarterings, another could do nothing useful, and so on. Number eight kept him guessing for three months, until he tired of her constant indecision, and confided his disappointment to number nine, who was not impressed. Number ten, introduced by a friend, Kepler found exceedingly ugly and enormously fat, and number eleven apparently too young. Kepler then reconsidered one of the earlier ones, disregarding the advice of his friends who objected to her lowly station. She was the orphan daughter of a cabinetmaker, educated for twelve years by favour of the Lady of Stahrenburg, and Kepler writes of her: \"Her person and manners are suitable to mine; no pride, no extravagance; she can bear to work; she has a tolerable knowledge of how to manage a family; middle-aged and of a disposition and capability to acquire what she still wants\".\n\nWine from the Austrian vineyards was plentiful and cheap at the time of the marriage, and Kepler bought a few casks for his household. When the seller came to ascertain the quantity, Kepler noticed that no proper allowance was made for the bulging parts, and the upshot of his objections was that he wrote a book on a new method of gauging--one of the earliest specimens of modern analysis, extending the properties of plane figures to segments of cones and cylinders as being \"incorporated circles\". He was summoned before the Diet at Ratisbon to give his opinion on the Gregorian Reform of the Calendar, and soon afterwards was excommunicated, having fallen foul of the Roman Catholic party at Linz just as he had previously at Gratz, the reason apparently being that he desired to think for himself. Meanwhile his salary was not paid any more regularly than before, and he was forced to supplement it by publishing what he called a \"vile prophesying almanac which is scarcely more respectable than begging unless it be because it saves the Emperor's credit, who abandons me entirely, and with all his frequent and recent orders in council, would suffer me to perish with hunger\".\n\nIn 1617 he was invited to Italy to succeed Magini as Professor of Mathematics at Bologna. Galileo urged him to accept the post, but he excused himself on the ground that he was a German and brought up among Germans with such liberty of speech as he thought might get him into trouble in Italy. In 1619 Matthias died and was succeeded by Ferdinand III, who again retained Kepler in his post. In the same year Kepler reprinted his \"Mysterium Cosmographicum,\" and also published his \"Harmonics\" in five books dedicated to James I of England. \"The first geometrical, on the origin and demonstration of the laws of the figures which produce harmonious proportions; the second, architectonical, on figurate geometry and the congruence of plane and solid regular figures; the third, properly Harmonic, on the derivation of musical proportions from figures, and on the nature and distinction of things relating to song, in opposition to the old theories; the fourth, metaphysical, psychological, and astrological, on the mental essence of Harmonics, and of their kinds in the world, especially on the harmony of rays emanating on the earth from the heavenly bodies, and on their effect in nature and on the sublunary and human soul; the fifth, astronomical and metaphysical, on the very exquisite Harmonics of the celestial motions and the origin of the excentricities in harmonious proportions.\" The extravagance of his fancies does not appear until the fourth book, in which he reiterates the statement that he was forced to adopt his astrological opinions from direct and positive observation. He despises \"The common herd of prophesiers who describe the operations of the stars as if they were a sort of deities, the lords of heaven and earth, and producing everything at their pleasure. They never trouble themselves to consider what means the stars have of working any effects among us on the earth whilst they remain in the sky and send down nothing to us which is obvious to the senses, except rays of light.\" His own notion is \"Like one who listens to a sweet melodious song, and by the gladness of his countenance, by his voice, and by the beating of his hand or foot attuned to the music, gives token that he perceives and approves the harmony: just so does sublunary nature, with the notable and evident emotion of the bowels of the earth, bear like witness to the same feelings, especially at those times when the rays of the planets form harmonious configurations on the earth,\" and again \"The earth is not an animal like a dog, ready at every nod; but more like a bull or an elephant, slow to become angry, and so much the more furious when incensed.\" He seems to have believed the earth to be actually a living animal, as witness the following: \"If anyone who has climbed the peaks of the highest mountains, throw a stone down their very deep clefts, a sound is heard from them; or if he throw it into one of the mountain lakes, which beyond doubt are bottomless, a storm will immediately arise, just as when you thrust a straw into the ear or nose of a ticklish animal, it shakes its head, or runs shudderingly away. What so like breathing, especially of those fish who draw water into their mouths and spout it out again through their gills, as that wonderful tide! For although it is so regulated according to the course of the moon, that, in the preface to my 'Commentaries on Mars,' I have mentioned it as probable that the waters are attracted by the moon, as iron by the loadstone, yet if anyone uphold that the earth regulates its breathing according to the motion of the sun and moon, as animals have daily and nightly alternations of sleep and waking, I shall not think his philosophy unworthy of being listened to; especially if any flexible parts should be discovered in the depths of the earth, to supply the functions of lungs or gills.\"\n\nIn the same book Kepler enlarges again on his views in reference to the basis of astrology as concerned with nativities and the importance of planetary conjunctions. He gives particulars of his own nativity. \"Jupiter nearest the nonagesimal had passed by four degrees the trine of Saturn; the Sun and Venus in conjunction were moving from the latter towards the former, nearly in sextiles with both: they were also removing from quadratures with Mars, to which Mercury was closely approaching: the moon drew near to the trine of the same planet, close to the Bull's Eye even in latitude. The 25th degree of Gemini was rising, and the 22nd of Aquarius culminating. That there was this triple configuration on that day--namely the sextile of Saturn and the Sun, the sextile of Mars and Jupiter, and the quadrature of Mercury and Mars, is proved by the change of weather; for after a frost of some days, that very day became warmer, there was a thaw and a fall of rain.\" This alleged \"proof\" is interesting as it relies on the same principle which was held to justify the correction of an uncertain birth-time, by reference to illnesses, etc., met with later. Kepler however goes on to say, \"If I am to speak of the results of my studies, what, I pray, can I find in the sky, even remotely alluding to it? The learned confess that several not despicable branches of philosophy have been newly extricated or amended or brought to perfection by me: but here my constellations were, not Mercury from the East in the angle of the seventh, and in quadratures with Mars, but Copernicus, but Tycho Brahe, without whose books of observations everything now set by me in the clearest light must have remained buried in darkness; not Saturn predominating Mercury, but my lords the Emperors Rudolph and Matthias, not Capricorn the house of Saturn but Upper Austria, the house of the Emperor, and the ready and unexampled bounty of his nobles to my petition. Here is that corner, not the western one of the horoscope, but on the earth whither, by permission of my Imperial master, I have betaken myself from a too uneasy Court; and whence, during these years of my life, which now tends towards its setting, emanate these Harmonics and the other matters on which I am engaged.\"\n\nThe fifth book contains a great deal of nonsense about the harmony of the spheres; the notes contributed by the several planets are gravely set down, that of Mercury having the greatest resemblance to a melody, though perhaps more reminiscent of a bugle-call. Yet the book is not all worthless for it includes Kepler's Third Law, which he had diligently sought for years. In his own words, \"The proportion existing between the periodic times of any two planets is exactly the sesquiplicate proportion of the mean distances of the orbits,\" or as generally given, \"the squares of the periodic times are proportional to the cubes of the mean distances.\" Kepler was evidently transported with delight and wrote, \"What I prophesied two and twenty years ago, as soon as I discovered the five solids among the heavenly orbits,--what I firmly believed long before I had seen Ptolemy's 'Harmonics'--what I had promised my friends in the title of this book, which I named before I was sure of my discovery,--what sixteen years ago I urged as a thing to be sought,--that for which I joined Tycho Brahe, for which I settled in Prague, for which I have devoted the best part of my life to astronomical computations, at length I have brought to light, and have recognised its truth beyond my most sanguine expectations. Great as is the absolute nature of Harmonics, with all its details as set forth in my third book, it is all found among the celestial motions, not indeed in the manner which I imagined (that is not the least part of my delight), but in another very different, and yet most perfect and excellent. It is now eighteen months since I got the first glimpse of light, three months since the dawn, very few days since the unveiled sun, most admirable to gaze on, burst out upon me. Nothing holds me; I will indulge in my sacred fury; I will triumph over mankind by the honest confession that I have stolen the golden vases of the Egyptians to build up a tabernacle for my God far away from the confines of Egypt. If you forgive me, I rejoice, if you are angry, I can bear it; the die is cast, the book is written; to be read either now or by posterity, I care not which; it may well wait a century for a reader, as God has waited six thousand years for an observer.\" He gives the date 15th May, 1618, for the completion of his discovery. In his \"Epitome of the Copernican Astronomy,\" he gives his own idea as to the reason for this Third Law. \"Four causes concur for lengthening the periodic time. First, the length of the path; secondly, the weight or quantity of matter to be carried; thirdly, the degree of strength of the moving virtue; fourthly, the bulk or space into which is spread out the matter to be moved. The orbital paths of the planets are in the simple ratio of the distances; the weights or quantities of matter in different planets are in the subduplicate ratio of the same distances, as has been already proved; so that with every increase of distance a planet has more matter and therefore is moved more slowly, and accumulates more time in its revolution, requiring already, as it did, more time by reason of the length of the way. The third and fourth causes compensate each other in a comparison of different planets; the simple and subduplicate proportion compound the sesquiplicate proportion, which therefore is the ratio of the periodic times.\" The only part of this \"explanation\" that is true is that the paths are in the simple ratio of the distances, the \"proof\" so confidently claimed being of the circular kind commonly known as \"begging the question\". It was reserved for Newton to establish the Laws of Motion, to find the law of force that would constrain a planet to obey Kepler's first and second Laws, and to prove that it must therefore also obey the third.","categories":["Philosophy of Magnetism :: Discusses Gilbert of Colchester's researches in magnetism and his ideas on tides","Historical Events :: Description of significant historical events","Astronomy :: References Kepler's attempt to extend the idea of magnetic attraction to the planets and his theory on planetary motions","Astronomy in the 17th Century :: Description of astronomical events and figures during the 17th century","Scientific Methodology :: Mentions the philosophical method used by Gilbert of Colchester and Kepler in their research","Physics :: Study of matter, energy, and the fundamental forces of nature","Mathematics and Analysis :: Describes Kepler's work on a new method of gauging","Philosophy of Nature :: Kepler's views on nature and the earth","Relationships :: Details Kepler's interactions with various potential wives","Historical Figures :: Mentions of historical figures like Tycho, Longomontanus, Copernicus, and Kepler.","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, shapes, and patterns","History :: Study of past events","Science :: Systematic study of the structure and behavior of the physical and natural world through observation and experiment","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Scientific History :: Mentions Kepler's work and its influence on Newton's Theory of Universal Gravitation","Astrology and Nativity :: Discusses astrology, nativities, and planetary conjunctions","Marriage and Family :: Describes Kepler's search for a second wife and the characteristics he sought in a partner","Mathematics and Astronomy :: Description of Kepler's work in mathematics and astronomy","Religious Conflict :: Describes Kepler's conflicts with the Roman Catholic party","Financial Struggles :: Describes Kepler's financial difficulties and methods to supplement his income","Personal Life Challenges :: Description of personal struggles and challenges faced by individuals","Physics :: The text discusses concepts of gravity, attraction, and motion of bodies in space","Physics :: Study of matter and energy and their interactions","Astronomy :: The text discusses observations and calculations related to the orbits of planets like Mars.","Astrology :: Kepler's astrological beliefs and observations","Personal Astrological Analysis :: Describes Kepler's own nativity and astrological configurations"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER V.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chapter"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's worries about his work being banned and the reassurance he received regarding the availability of prohibited books. It is clear and comprehensive.","original_text":"Soon after its publication Kepler's \"Epitome\" was placed along with the book of Copernicus, on the list of books prohibited by the Congregation of the Index at Rome, and he feared that this might prevent the publication or sale of his books in Austria also, but was told that though Galileo's violence was getting him into trouble, there would be no difficulty in obtaining permission for learned men to read any prohibited books, and that he (Kepler) need fear nothing so long as he remained quiet.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed overview of the paragraph, highlighting Kepler's reaction to the ban of his work and the reassurance he received regarding the reading of prohibited books. It effectively captures the main points and conveys the essence of the paragraph.","original_text":"Soon after its publication Kepler's \"Epitome\" was placed along with the book of Copernicus, on the list of books prohibited by the Congregation of the Index at Rome, and he feared that this might prevent the publication or sale of his books in Austria also, but was told that though Galileo's violence was getting him into trouble, there would be no difficulty in obtaining permission for learned men to read any prohibited books, and that he (Kepler) need fear nothing so long as he remained quiet.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures the key elements of the paragraph, including the prohibition of Kepler's work, his concerns about its impact, and the reassurance he received regarding scholars' access to banned books. It provides a clear and concise overview of the paragraph's content.","original_text":"Soon after its publication Kepler's \"Epitome\" was placed along with the book of Copernicus, on the list of books prohibited by the Congregation of the Index at Rome, and he feared that this might prevent the publication or sale of his books in Austria also, but was told that though Galileo's violence was getting him into trouble, there would be no difficulty in obtaining permission for learned men to read any prohibited books, and that he (Kepler) need fear nothing so long as he remained quiet.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In the text from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" specifically from Chapter VI, it is highlighted that shortly after the release of Kepler's \"Epitome,\" it was included in the list of banned books by the Congregation of the Index in Rome, alongside Copernicus' work. Kepler expressed concern that this prohibition might hinder the distribution of his books in Austria. However, he was reassured that despite Galileo's confrontational approach causing him trouble, scholars would still be able to access prohibited texts. Kepler was advised to maintain a low profile to avoid any issues, indicating that as long as he remained discreet, he had nothing to fear.","original_text":"Soon after its publication Kepler's \"Epitome\" was placed along with the book of Copernicus, on the list of books prohibited by the Congregation of the Index at Rome, and he feared that this might prevent the publication or sale of his books in Austria also, but was told that though Galileo's violence was getting him into trouble, there would be no difficulty in obtaining permission for learned men to read any prohibited books, and that he (Kepler) need fear nothing so long as he remained quiet.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's views on comets, stating that he believed they traveled in straight lines with varying speed, originating from the farthest regions of the ether. Drawing analogies to whales and silkworms, Kepler pondered that comets might be akin to silkworms, being consumed in creating their tails. Additionally, the text mentions Kepler's interest in Napier's logarithms, acknowledging the potential time-saving aspect if the discovery had been made earlier. Despite not fully grasping Napier's work, Kepler diligently computed logarithm tables and credited Napier for the invention.","original_text":"In his various works on Comets, he adhered to the opinion that they travelled in straight lines with varying velocity. He suggested that comets come from the remotest parts of ether, as whales and monsters from the depth of the sea, and that perhaps they are something of the nature of silkworms, and are wasted and consumed in spinning their own tails. Napier's invention of logarithms at once attracted Kepler's attention. He must have regretted that the discovery was not made early enough to save him a vast amount of labour in computations, but he managed to find time to compute some logarithm tables for himself, though he does not seem to have understood quite what Napier had done, and though with his usual honesty he gave full credit to the Scottish baron for his invention.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's views on comets, stating that he believed comets traveled in straight lines with varying speeds, originating from the farthest parts of the ether. Kepler likened comets to creatures emerging from the depths of the sea and speculated that they might resemble silkworms, being consumed as they create their tails. The text also mentions Kepler's interest in Napier's logarithms, acknowledging the efficiency they would have brought to his computations and his efforts to create logarithm tables, despite not fully grasping Napier's work.","original_text":"In his various works on Comets, he adhered to the opinion that they travelled in straight lines with varying velocity. He suggested that comets come from the remotest parts of ether, as whales and monsters from the depth of the sea, and that perhaps they are something of the nature of silkworms, and are wasted and consumed in spinning their own tails. Napier's invention of logarithms at once attracted Kepler's attention. He must have regretted that the discovery was not made early enough to save him a vast amount of labour in computations, but he managed to find time to compute some logarithm tables for himself, though he does not seem to have understood quite what Napier had done, and though with his usual honesty he gave full credit to the Scottish baron for his invention.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, in his works on Comets, believed they moved in straight lines with changing speeds, theorizing they originate from the farthest regions of ether akin to creatures emerging from the depths of the sea. He likened comets to silkworms, proposing they exhaust themselves in forming their tails. Kepler was intrigued by Napier's logarithms, acknowledging their utility despite wishing for their discovery earlier to ease his computational burdens. Although he created some logarithm tables himself, he didn't entirely grasp Napier's achievement, yet he openly credited the Scottish baron for his invention.","original_text":"In his various works on Comets, he adhered to the opinion that they travelled in straight lines with varying velocity. He suggested that comets come from the remotest parts of ether, as whales and monsters from the depth of the sea, and that perhaps they are something of the nature of silkworms, and are wasted and consumed in spinning their own tails. Napier's invention of logarithms at once attracted Kepler's attention. He must have regretted that the discovery was not made early enough to save him a vast amount of labour in computations, but he managed to find time to compute some logarithm tables for himself, though he does not seem to have understood quite what Napier had done, and though with his usual honesty he gave full credit to the Scottish baron for his invention.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler\" discusses Kepler's views on comets and his interaction with Napier's invention of logarithms. Kepler believed that comets moved in straight lines with varying speeds, originating from the farthest regions of the ether, akin to creatures emerging from the depths of the sea. He metaphorically compared comets to silkworms, suggesting they are consumed while forming their tails. Kepler was intrigued by Napier's logarithms, acknowledging that their discovery would have significantly eased his computational workload. Despite not fully grasping Napier's achievement, Kepler diligently created his own logarithm tables and openly credited the Scottish baron for his invention.","original_text":"In his various works on Comets, he adhered to the opinion that they travelled in straight lines with varying velocity. He suggested that comets come from the remotest parts of ether, as whales and monsters from the depth of the sea, and that perhaps they are something of the nature of silkworms, and are wasted and consumed in spinning their own tails. Napier's invention of logarithms at once attracted Kepler's attention. He must have regretted that the discovery was not made early enough to save him a vast amount of labour in computations, but he managed to find time to compute some logarithm tables for himself, though he does not seem to have understood quite what Napier had done, and though with his usual honesty he gave full credit to the Scottish baron for his invention.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph delves into the potential hereditary influence on Kepler's temperament, citing his mother's legal troubles. It describes Catherine Kepler's slander case escalating to accusations of witchcraft, her imprisonment, and Kepler's intervention to secure her release. The paragraph also mentions Sir Henry Wotton's visit, encouraging Kepler to move to England after the publication of his Rudolphine Tables.","original_text":"Though Eugenists may find a difficulty in reconciling Napier's brilliancy with the extreme youth of his parents, they may at any rate attribute Kepler's occasional fits of bad temper to heredity. His cantankerous mother, Catherine Kepler, had for some years been carrying on an action for slander against a woman who had accused her of administering a poisonous potion. Dame Kepler employed a young advocate who for reasons of his own \"nursed\" the case so long that after five years had elapsed without any conclusion being reached another judge was appointed, who had himself suffered from the caustic tongue of the prosecutrix, and so was already prejudiced against her. The defendant, knowing this, turned the tables on her opponent by bringing an accusation of witchcraft against her, and Catherine Kepler was imprisoned and condemned to the torture in July, 1620. Kepler, hearing of the sentence, hurried back from Linz, and succeeded in stopping the completion of the sentence, securing his mother's release the following year, as it was made clear that the only support for the case against her was her own intemperate language. Kepler returned to Linz, and his mother at once brought another action for costs and damages against her late opponent, but died before the case could be tried.\nA few months before this Sir Henry Wotton, English Ambassador to Venice, visited Kepler, and finding him as usual, almost penniless, urged him to go to England, promising him a warm welcome there. Kepler, however, would not at that time leave Germany, giving several reasons, one of which was that he dreaded the confinement of an island. Later on he expressed his willingness to go as soon as his Rudolphine Tables were published, and lecture on them, even in England, if he could not do it in Germany, and if a good enough salary were forthcoming.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary is detailed and captures the significant events in the paragraph, providing a clear understanding of Kepler's family background, legal challenges faced by his mother, and the potential opportunity for Kepler to move to England. It effectively conveys the essence of the text.","original_text":"Though Eugenists may find a difficulty in reconciling Napier's brilliancy with the extreme youth of his parents, they may at any rate attribute Kepler's occasional fits of bad temper to heredity. His cantankerous mother, Catherine Kepler, had for some years been carrying on an action for slander against a woman who had accused her of administering a poisonous potion. Dame Kepler employed a young advocate who for reasons of his own \"nursed\" the case so long that after five years had elapsed without any conclusion being reached another judge was appointed, who had himself suffered from the caustic tongue of the prosecutrix, and so was already prejudiced against her. The defendant, knowing this, turned the tables on her opponent by bringing an accusation of witchcraft against her, and Catherine Kepler was imprisoned and condemned to the torture in July, 1620. Kepler, hearing of the sentence, hurried back from Linz, and succeeded in stopping the completion of the sentence, securing his mother's release the following year, as it was made clear that the only support for the case against her was her own intemperate language. Kepler returned to Linz, and his mother at once brought another action for costs and damages against her late opponent, but died before the case could be tried.\nA few months before this Sir Henry Wotton, English Ambassador to Venice, visited Kepler, and finding him as usual, almost penniless, urged him to go to England, promising him a warm welcome there. Kepler, however, would not at that time leave Germany, giving several reasons, one of which was that he dreaded the confinement of an island. Later on he expressed his willingness to go as soon as his Rudolphine Tables were published, and lecture on them, even in England, if he could not do it in Germany, and if a good enough salary were forthcoming.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates the main themes of the paragraph, highlighting Kepler's mother's legal troubles, Kepler's intervention, and the encouragement from Sir Henry Wotton to visit England. It provides a detailed account of the events described in the text.","original_text":"Though Eugenists may find a difficulty in reconciling Napier's brilliancy with the extreme youth of his parents, they may at any rate attribute Kepler's occasional fits of bad temper to heredity. His cantankerous mother, Catherine Kepler, had for some years been carrying on an action for slander against a woman who had accused her of administering a poisonous potion. Dame Kepler employed a young advocate who for reasons of his own \"nursed\" the case so long that after five years had elapsed without any conclusion being reached another judge was appointed, who had himself suffered from the caustic tongue of the prosecutrix, and so was already prejudiced against her. The defendant, knowing this, turned the tables on her opponent by bringing an accusation of witchcraft against her, and Catherine Kepler was imprisoned and condemned to the torture in July, 1620. Kepler, hearing of the sentence, hurried back from Linz, and succeeded in stopping the completion of the sentence, securing his mother's release the following year, as it was made clear that the only support for the case against her was her own intemperate language. Kepler returned to Linz, and his mother at once brought another action for costs and damages against her late opponent, but died before the case could be tried.\nA few months before this Sir Henry Wotton, English Ambassador to Venice, visited Kepler, and finding him as usual, almost penniless, urged him to go to England, promising him a warm welcome there. Kepler, however, would not at that time leave Germany, giving several reasons, one of which was that he dreaded the confinement of an island. Later on he expressed his willingness to go as soon as his Rudolphine Tables were published, and lecture on them, even in England, if he could not do it in Germany, and if a good enough salary were forthcoming.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In the provided paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" the text delves into the hereditary aspect of Kepler's occasional bad temper, potentially attributed to his mother, Catherine Kepler. The narrative recounts Catherine's legal battle involving slander accusations and witchcraft allegations, leading to her imprisonment and torture in 1620. Kepler intervened, halting the sentence and securing his mother's release the following year. Despite Catherine's subsequent legal actions, she passed away before the case could be resolved. Additionally, the paragraph mentions a visit from Sir Henry Wotton, who encouraged Kepler to move to England, an offer initially declined due to various reasons, including Kepler's concerns about being confined on an island. However, Kepler later expressed willingness to travel to England after the publication of his Rudolphine Tables, contingent on a suitable salary for lecturing.","original_text":"Though Eugenists may find a difficulty in reconciling Napier's brilliancy with the extreme youth of his parents, they may at any rate attribute Kepler's occasional fits of bad temper to heredity. His cantankerous mother, Catherine Kepler, had for some years been carrying on an action for slander against a woman who had accused her of administering a poisonous potion. Dame Kepler employed a young advocate who for reasons of his own \"nursed\" the case so long that after five years had elapsed without any conclusion being reached another judge was appointed, who had himself suffered from the caustic tongue of the prosecutrix, and so was already prejudiced against her. The defendant, knowing this, turned the tables on her opponent by bringing an accusation of witchcraft against her, and Catherine Kepler was imprisoned and condemned to the torture in July, 1620. Kepler, hearing of the sentence, hurried back from Linz, and succeeded in stopping the completion of the sentence, securing his mother's release the following year, as it was made clear that the only support for the case against her was her own intemperate language. Kepler returned to Linz, and his mother at once brought another action for costs and damages against her late opponent, but died before the case could be tried.\nA few months before this Sir Henry Wotton, English Ambassador to Venice, visited Kepler, and finding him as usual, almost penniless, urged him to go to England, promising him a warm welcome there. Kepler, however, would not at that time leave Germany, giving several reasons, one of which was that he dreaded the confinement of an island. Later on he expressed his willingness to go as soon as his Rudolphine Tables were published, and lecture on them, even in England, if he could not do it in Germany, and if a good enough salary were forthcoming.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, in 1624, visited Vienna to secure funds for his Tables. He obtained 6000 florins but was redirected to collect debts owed to the Imperial treasury. Religious turmoil delayed the Tables' completion; the Jesuits sealed his library and local peasants revolted. Despite these challenges, in 1627, the groundbreaking Tables were finally published in Ulm, featuring innovative elements like non-circular motion and detailed celestial data. Kepler's work also included astrological applications, a practice he found financially necessary but morally questionable.","original_text":"In 1624 he went to Vienna, and managed to extract from the Treasury 6000 florins on account of expenses connected with the Tables, but, instead of a further grant, was given letters to the States of Swabia, which owed money to the Imperial treasury. Some of this he succeeded in collecting, but the Tables were still further delayed by the religious disturbances then becoming violent. The Jesuits contrived to have Kepler's library sealed up, and, but for the Imperial protection, would have imprisoned him also; moreover the peasants revolted and blockaded Linz. In 1627, however, the long promised Tables, the first to discard the conventional circular motion, were at last published at Ulm in four parts. Two of these parts consisted of subsidiary Tables, of logarithms and other computing devices, another contained Tables of the elements of the sun, moon, and planets, and the fourth gave the places of a thousand stars as determined by Tycho, with Tycho's refraction Tables, which had the peculiarity of using different values for the refraction of the sun, moon, and stars. From a map prefixed to some copies of the Tables, we may infer that Kepler was one of the first, if not actually the first, to suggest the method of determining differences of longitude by occultations of stars at the moon's limb. In an Appendix, he showed how his Tables could be used by astrologers for their predictions, saying \"Astronomy is the daughter of Astrology, and this modern Astrology again is the daughter of Astronomy, bearing something of the lineaments of her grandmother; and, as I have already said, this foolish daughter, Astrology, supports her wise but needy mother, Astronomy, from the profits of a profession not generally considered creditable\". There is no doubt that Kepler strongly resented having to depend so much for his income on such methods which he certainly did not consider creditable.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively encapsulates Kepler's journey in Vienna in 1624, his financial struggles, the delays in publishing his Tables due to religious and social unrest, the unique features of his work, and his reluctance towards astrology for income. It provides a detailed account of the paragraph, covering essential aspects of Kepler's life and work during this period.","original_text":"In 1624 he went to Vienna, and managed to extract from the Treasury 6000 florins on account of expenses connected with the Tables, but, instead of a further grant, was given letters to the States of Swabia, which owed money to the Imperial treasury. Some of this he succeeded in collecting, but the Tables were still further delayed by the religious disturbances then becoming violent. The Jesuits contrived to have Kepler's library sealed up, and, but for the Imperial protection, would have imprisoned him also; moreover the peasants revolted and blockaded Linz. In 1627, however, the long promised Tables, the first to discard the conventional circular motion, were at last published at Ulm in four parts. Two of these parts consisted of subsidiary Tables, of logarithms and other computing devices, another contained Tables of the elements of the sun, moon, and planets, and the fourth gave the places of a thousand stars as determined by Tycho, with Tycho's refraction Tables, which had the peculiarity of using different values for the refraction of the sun, moon, and stars. From a map prefixed to some copies of the Tables, we may infer that Kepler was one of the first, if not actually the first, to suggest the method of determining differences of longitude by occultations of stars at the moon's limb. In an Appendix, he showed how his Tables could be used by astrologers for their predictions, saying \"Astronomy is the daughter of Astrology, and this modern Astrology again is the daughter of Astronomy, bearing something of the lineaments of her grandmother; and, as I have already said, this foolish daughter, Astrology, supports her wise but needy mother, Astronomy, from the profits of a profession not generally considered creditable\". There is no doubt that Kepler strongly resented having to depend so much for his income on such methods which he certainly did not consider creditable.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, in 1624, visited Vienna to secure funding for his Tables. He obtained 6000 florins but was redirected to collect debts owed to the Imperial treasury. Religious turmoil and Jesuit interference delayed his work. Despite facing challenges like having his library sealed and being threatened with imprisonment, Kepler managed to publish the long-awaited Tables in 1627 at Ulm. These Tables, a departure from traditional circular motion, included elements like logarithms, planetary positions, and stars' locations. Kepler, in an Appendix, reluctantly discussed how astrologers could use his Tables for predictions, expressing his discontent with relying on astrology for income.","original_text":"In 1624 he went to Vienna, and managed to extract from the Treasury 6000 florins on account of expenses connected with the Tables, but, instead of a further grant, was given letters to the States of Swabia, which owed money to the Imperial treasury. Some of this he succeeded in collecting, but the Tables were still further delayed by the religious disturbances then becoming violent. The Jesuits contrived to have Kepler's library sealed up, and, but for the Imperial protection, would have imprisoned him also; moreover the peasants revolted and blockaded Linz. In 1627, however, the long promised Tables, the first to discard the conventional circular motion, were at last published at Ulm in four parts. Two of these parts consisted of subsidiary Tables, of logarithms and other computing devices, another contained Tables of the elements of the sun, moon, and planets, and the fourth gave the places of a thousand stars as determined by Tycho, with Tycho's refraction Tables, which had the peculiarity of using different values for the refraction of the sun, moon, and stars. From a map prefixed to some copies of the Tables, we may infer that Kepler was one of the first, if not actually the first, to suggest the method of determining differences of longitude by occultations of stars at the moon's limb. In an Appendix, he showed how his Tables could be used by astrologers for their predictions, saying \"Astronomy is the daughter of Astrology, and this modern Astrology again is the daughter of Astronomy, bearing something of the lineaments of her grandmother; and, as I have already said, this foolish daughter, Astrology, supports her wise but needy mother, Astronomy, from the profits of a profession not generally considered creditable\". There is no doubt that Kepler strongly resented having to depend so much for his income on such methods which he certainly did not consider creditable.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In 1624, Kepler traveled to Vienna and secured 6000 florins from the Treasury for expenses related to his Tables. Instead of additional funding, he received letters directing him to collect owed money from the States of Swabia. Despite managing to gather some funds, the completion of the Tables faced further delays due to escalating religious conflicts. The Jesuits attempted to seal Kepler's library and would have imprisoned him if not for Imperial protection. Additionally, Linz was blockaded by rebellious peasants. Finally, in 1627, after overcoming these obstacles, Kepler's long-awaited Tables were published in Ulm. These groundbreaking Tables, the first to deviate from circular motion, comprised subsidiary Tables, elements of celestial bodies, and star positions based on Tycho's observations. Kepler also introduced a method for determining longitude differences using star occultations. In an Appendix, he reluctantly demonstrated how astrologers could use his Tables for predictions, expressing his disdain for relying on astrology for income despite its financial support for astronomy. Kepler's frustration at this dependence on astrology is evident, highlighting his commitment to scientific integrity and his reluctance to associate with practices he deemed disreputable.","original_text":"In 1624 he went to Vienna, and managed to extract from the Treasury 6000 florins on account of expenses connected with the Tables, but, instead of a further grant, was given letters to the States of Swabia, which owed money to the Imperial treasury. Some of this he succeeded in collecting, but the Tables were still further delayed by the religious disturbances then becoming violent. The Jesuits contrived to have Kepler's library sealed up, and, but for the Imperial protection, would have imprisoned him also; moreover the peasants revolted and blockaded Linz. In 1627, however, the long promised Tables, the first to discard the conventional circular motion, were at last published at Ulm in four parts. Two of these parts consisted of subsidiary Tables, of logarithms and other computing devices, another contained Tables of the elements of the sun, moon, and planets, and the fourth gave the places of a thousand stars as determined by Tycho, with Tycho's refraction Tables, which had the peculiarity of using different values for the refraction of the sun, moon, and stars. From a map prefixed to some copies of the Tables, we may infer that Kepler was one of the first, if not actually the first, to suggest the method of determining differences of longitude by occultations of stars at the moon's limb. In an Appendix, he showed how his Tables could be used by astrologers for their predictions, saying \"Astronomy is the daughter of Astrology, and this modern Astrology again is the daughter of Astronomy, bearing something of the lineaments of her grandmother; and, as I have already said, this foolish daughter, Astrology, supports her wise but needy mother, Astronomy, from the profits of a profession not generally considered creditable\". There is no doubt that Kepler strongly resented having to depend so much for his income on such methods which he certainly did not consider creditable.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler received recognition from Galileo and the Grand Duke of Tuscany after publishing his Tables. Emperor Ferdinand allowed him to join Wallenstein, who supported him better. Wallenstein provided resources, a professorship, and attempted to take over Kepler's debt for the Rudolphine Tables. Despite efforts to secure payment, Kepler died in 1630 after facing disappointment and fatigue. His daughter, Susanna, obtained part of his salary by threatening to keep Tycho's manuscripts. Kepler's unpublished works included a 'Dream of Lunar Astronomy.' His writings were compiled posthumously.","original_text":"It was probably Galileo whose praise of the new Tables induced the Grand Duke of Tuscany to send Kepler a gold chain soon after their publication, and we may perhaps regard it as a mark of favour from the Emperor Ferdinand that he permitted Kepler to attach himself to the great Wallenstein, now Duke of Friedland, and a firm believer in Astrology. The Duke was a better paymaster than either of the three successive Emperors. He furnished Kepler with an assistant and a printing press; and obtained for him the Professorship of Astronomy at the University of Rostock in Mecklenburg. Apparently, however, the Emperor could not induce Wallenstein to take over the responsibility of the 8000 crowns, still owing from the Imperial treasury on account of the Rudolphine Tables. Kepler made a last attempt to secure payment at Ratisbon, but his journey thither brought disappointment and fatigue and left him in such a condition that he rapidly succumbed to an attack of fever, dying in November, 1630, in his fifty-ninth year. His body was buried at Ratisbon, but the tombstone was destroyed during the war then raging. His daughter, Susanna, the wife of Jacob Bartsch, a physician who had helped Kepler with his Ephemeris, lost her husband soon after her father's death, and succeeded in obtaining part of Kepler's arrears of salary by threatening to keep Tycho's manuscripts, but her stepmother was left almost penniless with five young children. For their benefit Louis Kepler printed a \"Dream of Lunar Astronomy,\" which first his father and then his brother-in-law had been preparing for publication at the time of their respective deaths. It is a curious mixture of saga and fairy tale with a little science in the way of astronomy studied from the moon, and cast in the form of a dream to overcome the practical difficulties of the hypothesis of visiting the moon. Other writings in large numbers were left unpublished. No attempt at a complete edition of Kepler's works was made for a long time. One was projected in 1714 by his biographer, Hantsch, but all that appeared was one volume of letters. After various learned bodies had declined to move in the matter the manuscripts were purchased for the Imperial Russian library. An edition was at length brought out at Frankfort by C. Frisch, in eight volumes, appearing at intervals from 1858-1870.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, after the publication of his new Tables, received recognition from Galileo and the Grand Duke of Tuscany, who sent him a gold chain. Emperor Ferdinand allowed Kepler to join Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland, who supported him better than the Emperors did. Wallenstein provided assistance, a printing press, and secured Kepler a professorship at the University of Rostock. Despite efforts to recover funds owed for the Rudolphine Tables, Kepler faced disappointment and exhaustion during a journey to Ratisbon, leading to his death in 1630. His daughter, Susanna, managed to obtain part of his arrears by threatening to withhold Tycho's manuscripts, while his stepmother and grandchildren faced financial struggles. Kepler's posthumous works, including the 'Dream of Lunar Astronomy,' were published by his son Louis Kepler.","original_text":"It was probably Galileo whose praise of the new Tables induced the Grand Duke of Tuscany to send Kepler a gold chain soon after their publication, and we may perhaps regard it as a mark of favour from the Emperor Ferdinand that he permitted Kepler to attach himself to the great Wallenstein, now Duke of Friedland, and a firm believer in Astrology. The Duke was a better paymaster than either of the three successive Emperors. He furnished Kepler with an assistant and a printing press; and obtained for him the Professorship of Astronomy at the University of Rostock in Mecklenburg. Apparently, however, the Emperor could not induce Wallenstein to take over the responsibility of the 8000 crowns, still owing from the Imperial treasury on account of the Rudolphine Tables. Kepler made a last attempt to secure payment at Ratisbon, but his journey thither brought disappointment and fatigue and left him in such a condition that he rapidly succumbed to an attack of fever, dying in November, 1630, in his fifty-ninth year. His body was buried at Ratisbon, but the tombstone was destroyed during the war then raging. His daughter, Susanna, the wife of Jacob Bartsch, a physician who had helped Kepler with his Ephemeris, lost her husband soon after her father's death, and succeeded in obtaining part of Kepler's arrears of salary by threatening to keep Tycho's manuscripts, but her stepmother was left almost penniless with five young children. For their benefit Louis Kepler printed a \"Dream of Lunar Astronomy,\" which first his father and then his brother-in-law had been preparing for publication at the time of their respective deaths. It is a curious mixture of saga and fairy tale with a little science in the way of astronomy studied from the moon, and cast in the form of a dream to overcome the practical difficulties of the hypothesis of visiting the moon. Other writings in large numbers were left unpublished. No attempt at a complete edition of Kepler's works was made for a long time. One was projected in 1714 by his biographer, Hantsch, but all that appeared was one volume of letters. After various learned bodies had declined to move in the matter the manuscripts were purchased for the Imperial Russian library. An edition was at length brought out at Frankfort by C. Frisch, in eight volumes, appearing at intervals from 1858-1870.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler, after receiving praise from Galileo for his new Tables, was gifted a gold chain by the Grand Duke of Tuscany. Emperor Ferdinand allowed Kepler to join Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland, a strong believer in Astrology, who provided support and resources, including an assistant and a printing press. Wallenstein secured Kepler a position as a Professor of Astronomy at the University of Rostock. Despite efforts, the Emperor failed to transfer the 8000 crowns owed to Kepler for the Rudolphine Tables. Kepler's final attempt to claim payment in Ratisbon led to disappointment and illness, resulting in his death in November 1630 at the age of fifty-eight. Kepler's daughter, Susanna, managed to obtain part of his salary by threatening to withhold Tycho's manuscripts. Kepler's posthumous works, including the 'Dream of Lunar Astronomy,' a blend of saga, fairy tale, and astronomy, were published by his son Louis Kepler for the benefit of his family.","original_text":"It was probably Galileo whose praise of the new Tables induced the Grand Duke of Tuscany to send Kepler a gold chain soon after their publication, and we may perhaps regard it as a mark of favour from the Emperor Ferdinand that he permitted Kepler to attach himself to the great Wallenstein, now Duke of Friedland, and a firm believer in Astrology. The Duke was a better paymaster than either of the three successive Emperors. He furnished Kepler with an assistant and a printing press; and obtained for him the Professorship of Astronomy at the University of Rostock in Mecklenburg. Apparently, however, the Emperor could not induce Wallenstein to take over the responsibility of the 8000 crowns, still owing from the Imperial treasury on account of the Rudolphine Tables. Kepler made a last attempt to secure payment at Ratisbon, but his journey thither brought disappointment and fatigue and left him in such a condition that he rapidly succumbed to an attack of fever, dying in November, 1630, in his fifty-ninth year. His body was buried at Ratisbon, but the tombstone was destroyed during the war then raging. His daughter, Susanna, the wife of Jacob Bartsch, a physician who had helped Kepler with his Ephemeris, lost her husband soon after her father's death, and succeeded in obtaining part of Kepler's arrears of salary by threatening to keep Tycho's manuscripts, but her stepmother was left almost penniless with five young children. For their benefit Louis Kepler printed a \"Dream of Lunar Astronomy,\" which first his father and then his brother-in-law had been preparing for publication at the time of their respective deaths. It is a curious mixture of saga and fairy tale with a little science in the way of astronomy studied from the moon, and cast in the form of a dream to overcome the practical difficulties of the hypothesis of visiting the moon. Other writings in large numbers were left unpublished. No attempt at a complete edition of Kepler's works was made for a long time. One was projected in 1714 by his biographer, Hantsch, but all that appeared was one volume of letters. After various learned bodies had declined to move in the matter the manuscripts were purchased for the Imperial Russian library. An edition was at length brought out at Frankfort by C. Frisch, in eight volumes, appearing at intervals from 1858-1870.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"In this paragraph from Walter W. Bryant's work \"Kepler,\" it is highlighted that after the publication of Kepler's \"Epitome,\" Galileo's praise of the new Tables possibly led to the Grand Duke of Tuscany sending Kepler a gold chain. This gesture could be seen as a favor from Emperor Ferdinand, allowing Kepler to join Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland, a strong believer in Astrology. Wallenstein proved to be a more reliable supporter than the Emperors, providing Kepler with resources, a professorship at the University of Rostock, and assistance in securing the position. Despite efforts to recover outstanding payments owed to him, Kepler faced disappointment and exhaustion during a journey to Ratisbon, succumbing to fever and passing away in November 1630 at the age of fifty-eight. His burial place was later destroyed in the ongoing war. Kepler's daughter, Susanna, managed to obtain some of his arrears by threatening to withhold Tycho's manuscripts, while his stepmother was left financially strained with five young children. Louis Kepler published \"Dream of Lunar Astronomy,\" a blend of saga, fairy tale, and astronomy, to support the family. Many of Kepler's writings remained unpublished, with a comprehensive edition of his works not materializing until much later, with the manuscripts eventually being acquired by the Imperial Russian library and published in eight volumes between 1858 and 1870 by C. Frisch in Frankfort.","original_text":"It was probably Galileo whose praise of the new Tables induced the Grand Duke of Tuscany to send Kepler a gold chain soon after their publication, and we may perhaps regard it as a mark of favour from the Emperor Ferdinand that he permitted Kepler to attach himself to the great Wallenstein, now Duke of Friedland, and a firm believer in Astrology. The Duke was a better paymaster than either of the three successive Emperors. He furnished Kepler with an assistant and a printing press; and obtained for him the Professorship of Astronomy at the University of Rostock in Mecklenburg. Apparently, however, the Emperor could not induce Wallenstein to take over the responsibility of the 8000 crowns, still owing from the Imperial treasury on account of the Rudolphine Tables. Kepler made a last attempt to secure payment at Ratisbon, but his journey thither brought disappointment and fatigue and left him in such a condition that he rapidly succumbed to an attack of fever, dying in November, 1630, in his fifty-ninth year. His body was buried at Ratisbon, but the tombstone was destroyed during the war then raging. His daughter, Susanna, the wife of Jacob Bartsch, a physician who had helped Kepler with his Ephemeris, lost her husband soon after her father's death, and succeeded in obtaining part of Kepler's arrears of salary by threatening to keep Tycho's manuscripts, but her stepmother was left almost penniless with five young children. For their benefit Louis Kepler printed a \"Dream of Lunar Astronomy,\" which first his father and then his brother-in-law had been preparing for publication at the time of their respective deaths. It is a curious mixture of saga and fairy tale with a little science in the way of astronomy studied from the moon, and cast in the form of a dream to overcome the practical difficulties of the hypothesis of visiting the moon. Other writings in large numbers were left unpublished. No attempt at a complete edition of Kepler's works was made for a long time. One was projected in 1714 by his biographer, Hantsch, but all that appeared was one volume of letters. After various learned bodies had declined to move in the matter the manuscripts were purchased for the Imperial Russian library. An edition was at length brought out at Frankfort by C. Frisch, in eight volumes, appearing at intervals from 1858-1870.","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler's reputation is not solely based on his extensive writings. His approach to problem-solving led to a mix of valuable insights and less fruitful endeavors, as he meticulously pursued various paths, even those that turned out to be dead ends. His sincerity and straightforwardness compelled him to include all his findings, even the erroneous ones, showcasing his willingness to explore extensively. Described as ardent and relentless in his quest for discoveries, Kepler's work was marked by a blend of successful and fanciful attempts, with his perseverance shining through challenges. While some critics lament the lack of clarity and accuracy in his writings, acknowledging that some valuable discoveries might have been accidental, they also recognize his dedication to comparing speculative ideas with empirical evidence and his readiness to discard unfounded beliefs. Despite suggestions that Kepler could have enhanced his legacy by publishing less, his existing body of work reflects his exceptional enthusiasm, diligence, and unparalleled intellectual integrity.","original_text":"Kepler's fame does not rest upon his voluminous works. With his peculiar method of approaching problems there was bound to be an inordinate amount of chaff mixed with the grain, and he used no winnowing machine. His simplicity and transparent honesty induced him to include everything, in fact he seemed to glory in the number of false trails he laboriously followed. He was one who might be expected to find the proverbial \"needle in a haystack,\" but unfortunately the needle was not always there. Delambre says, \"Ardent, restless, burning to distinguish himself by his discoveries he attempted everything, and having once obtained a glimpse of one, no labour was too hard for him in following or verifying it. All his attempts had not the same success, and in fact that was impossible. Those which have failed seem to us only fanciful; those which have been more fortunate appear sublime. When in search of that which really existed, he has sometimes found it; when he devoted himself to the pursuit of a chimera, he could not but fail, but even then he unfolded the same qualities, and that obstinate perseverance that must triumph over all difficulties but those which are insurmountable.\" Berry, in his \"Short History of Astronomy,\" says \"as one reads chapter after chapter without a lucid, still less a correct idea, it is impossible to refrain from regrets that the intelligence of Kepler should have been so wasted, and it is difficult not to suspect at times that some of the valuable results which lie embedded in this great mass of tedious speculation were arrived at by a mere accident. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that such accidents have a habit of happening only to great men, and that if Kepler loved to give reins to his imagination he was equally impressed with the necessity of scrupulously comparing speculative results with observed facts, and of surrendering without demur the most beloved of his fancies if it was unable to stand this test. If Kepler had burnt three-quarters of what he printed, we should in all probability have formed a higher opinion of his intellectual grasp and sobriety of judgment, but we should have lost to a great extent the impression of extraordinary enthusiasm and industry, and of almost unequalled intellectual honesty which we now get from a study of his works.\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Kepler's reputation is not solely based on his extensive writings. His approach to problem-solving led to a mix of valuable insights and less fruitful endeavors, as he meticulously pursued various paths, even those that turned out to be dead ends. Despite this, his sincerity and straightforwardness compelled him to include all his findings, even the unsuccessful ones. Described as ardent and relentless in his pursuit of discoveries, Kepler's work was a blend of fanciful ideas and sublime achievements. Although some of his speculations may seem tedious or fanciful, Kepler's dedication to comparing his theories with observed facts and his readiness to discard unfounded notions demonstrate his exceptional perseverance and commitment to truth.","original_text":"Kepler's fame does not rest upon his voluminous works. With his peculiar method of approaching problems there was bound to be an inordinate amount of chaff mixed with the grain, and he used no winnowing machine. His simplicity and transparent honesty induced him to include everything, in fact he seemed to glory in the number of false trails he laboriously followed. He was one who might be expected to find the proverbial \"needle in a haystack,\" but unfortunately the needle was not always there. Delambre says, \"Ardent, restless, burning to distinguish himself by his discoveries he attempted everything, and having once obtained a glimpse of one, no labour was too hard for him in following or verifying it. All his attempts had not the same success, and in fact that was impossible. Those which have failed seem to us only fanciful; those which have been more fortunate appear sublime. When in search of that which really existed, he has sometimes found it; when he devoted himself to the pursuit of a chimera, he could not but fail, but even then he unfolded the same qualities, and that obstinate perseverance that must triumph over all difficulties but those which are insurmountable.\" Berry, in his \"Short History of Astronomy,\" says \"as one reads chapter after chapter without a lucid, still less a correct idea, it is impossible to refrain from regrets that the intelligence of Kepler should have been so wasted, and it is difficult not to suspect at times that some of the valuable results which lie embedded in this great mass of tedious speculation were arrived at by a mere accident. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that such accidents have a habit of happening only to great men, and that if Kepler loved to give reins to his imagination he was equally impressed with the necessity of scrupulously comparing speculative results with observed facts, and of surrendering without demur the most beloved of his fancies if it was unable to stand this test. If Kepler had burnt three-quarters of what he printed, we should in all probability have formed a higher opinion of his intellectual grasp and sobriety of judgment, but we should have lost to a great extent the impression of extraordinary enthusiasm and industry, and of almost unequalled intellectual honesty which we now get from a study of his works.\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed and comprehensive overview of Kepler's approach to problem-solving, emphasizing his dedication, enthusiasm, and the varied outcomes of his endeavors. It effectively captures the essence of his relentless pursuit of knowledge and the balance between his imaginative speculations and empirical observations.","original_text":"Kepler's fame does not rest upon his voluminous works. With his peculiar method of approaching problems there was bound to be an inordinate amount of chaff mixed with the grain, and he used no winnowing machine. His simplicity and transparent honesty induced him to include everything, in fact he seemed to glory in the number of false trails he laboriously followed. He was one who might be expected to find the proverbial \"needle in a haystack,\" but unfortunately the needle was not always there. Delambre says, \"Ardent, restless, burning to distinguish himself by his discoveries he attempted everything, and having once obtained a glimpse of one, no labour was too hard for him in following or verifying it. All his attempts had not the same success, and in fact that was impossible. Those which have failed seem to us only fanciful; those which have been more fortunate appear sublime. When in search of that which really existed, he has sometimes found it; when he devoted himself to the pursuit of a chimera, he could not but fail, but even then he unfolded the same qualities, and that obstinate perseverance that must triumph over all difficulties but those which are insurmountable.\" Berry, in his \"Short History of Astronomy,\" says \"as one reads chapter after chapter without a lucid, still less a correct idea, it is impossible to refrain from regrets that the intelligence of Kepler should have been so wasted, and it is difficult not to suspect at times that some of the valuable results which lie embedded in this great mass of tedious speculation were arrived at by a mere accident. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that such accidents have a habit of happening only to great men, and that if Kepler loved to give reins to his imagination he was equally impressed with the necessity of scrupulously comparing speculative results with observed facts, and of surrendering without demur the most beloved of his fancies if it was unable to stand this test. If Kepler had burnt three-quarters of what he printed, we should in all probability have formed a higher opinion of his intellectual grasp and sobriety of judgment, but we should have lost to a great extent the impression of extraordinary enthusiasm and industry, and of almost unequalled intellectual honesty which we now get from a study of his works.\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Kepler's approach to problem-solving and his legacy. It highlights his method of including all information, even false leads, in his works due to his simplicity and honesty. Despite his numerous works, his fame is not solely based on their volume. Descriptions from Delambre and Berry emphasize Kepler's relentless pursuit of discoveries, even if some were fanciful or unsuccessful. Delambre praises Kepler's perseverance and ability to find the extraordinary amidst failures, while Berry suggests that Kepler's intellectual honesty and enthusiasm shine through his works, despite the potential for a higher opinion of his intellect if he had published less. The paragraph underscores Kepler's dedication, enthusiasm, and honesty in his scientific pursuits, portraying him as a figure driven by a passion for discovery and a commitment to truth.","original_text":"Kepler's fame does not rest upon his voluminous works. With his peculiar method of approaching problems there was bound to be an inordinate amount of chaff mixed with the grain, and he used no winnowing machine. His simplicity and transparent honesty induced him to include everything, in fact he seemed to glory in the number of false trails he laboriously followed. He was one who might be expected to find the proverbial \"needle in a haystack,\" but unfortunately the needle was not always there. Delambre says, \"Ardent, restless, burning to distinguish himself by his discoveries he attempted everything, and having once obtained a glimpse of one, no labour was too hard for him in following or verifying it. All his attempts had not the same success, and in fact that was impossible. Those which have failed seem to us only fanciful; those which have been more fortunate appear sublime. When in search of that which really existed, he has sometimes found it; when he devoted himself to the pursuit of a chimera, he could not but fail, but even then he unfolded the same qualities, and that obstinate perseverance that must triumph over all difficulties but those which are insurmountable.\" Berry, in his \"Short History of Astronomy,\" says \"as one reads chapter after chapter without a lucid, still less a correct idea, it is impossible to refrain from regrets that the intelligence of Kepler should have been so wasted, and it is difficult not to suspect at times that some of the valuable results which lie embedded in this great mass of tedious speculation were arrived at by a mere accident. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that such accidents have a habit of happening only to great men, and that if Kepler loved to give reins to his imagination he was equally impressed with the necessity of scrupulously comparing speculative results with observed facts, and of surrendering without demur the most beloved of his fancies if it was unable to stand this test. If Kepler had burnt three-quarters of what he printed, we should in all probability have formed a higher opinion of his intellectual grasp and sobriety of judgment, but we should have lost to a great extent the impression of extraordinary enthusiasm and industry, and of almost unequalled intellectual honesty which we now get from a study of his works.\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary effectively captures Professor Forbes' high regard for Kepler's contributions to astronomy, emphasizing Kepler's potential role in the early understanding of universal gravitation and the unique impact his absence would have had on the discovery of scientific laws.","original_text":"Professor Forbes is more enthusiastic. In his \"History of Astronomy,\" he refers to Kepler as \"the man whose place, as is generally agreed, would have been the most difficult to fill among all those who have contributed to the advance of astronomical knowledge,\" and again _ propos_ of Kepler's great book, \"it must be obvious that he had at that time some inkling of the meaning of his laws--universal gravitation. From that moment the idea of universal gravitation was in the air, and hints and guesses were thrown out by many; and in time the law of gravitation would doubtless have been discovered, though probably not by the work of one man, even if Newton had not lived. But, if Kepler had not lived, who else could have discovered his Laws?\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Professor Forbes, in his 'History of Astronomy,' praises Kepler as irreplaceable in advancing astronomical knowledge. He highlights Kepler's significant contribution, suggesting that Kepler had early insights into universal gravitation, which later influenced the discovery of the law of gravitation. Forbes speculates that without Kepler, the discovery of Kepler's Laws might have been delayed or not achieved by a single individual like Newton.","original_text":"Professor Forbes is more enthusiastic. In his \"History of Astronomy,\" he refers to Kepler as \"the man whose place, as is generally agreed, would have been the most difficult to fill among all those who have contributed to the advance of astronomical knowledge,\" and again _ propos_ of Kepler's great book, \"it must be obvious that he had at that time some inkling of the meaning of his laws--universal gravitation. From that moment the idea of universal gravitation was in the air, and hints and guesses were thrown out by many; and in time the law of gravitation would doubtless have been discovered, though probably not by the work of one man, even if Newton had not lived. But, if Kepler had not lived, who else could have discovered his Laws?\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The summary provides a detailed and accurate representation of Professor Forbes' high regard for Kepler, emphasizing Kepler's indispensable contributions to astronomy and the potential impact of his absence on the discovery of universal gravitation.","original_text":"Professor Forbes is more enthusiastic. In his \"History of Astronomy,\" he refers to Kepler as \"the man whose place, as is generally agreed, would have been the most difficult to fill among all those who have contributed to the advance of astronomical knowledge,\" and again _ propos_ of Kepler's great book, \"it must be obvious that he had at that time some inkling of the meaning of his laws--universal gravitation. From that moment the idea of universal gravitation was in the air, and hints and guesses were thrown out by many; and in time the law of gravitation would doubtless have been discovered, though probably not by the work of one man, even if Newton had not lived. But, if Kepler had not lived, who else could have discovered his Laws?\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"The paragraph discusses Professor Forbes' enthusiastic admiration for Kepler in the field of astronomy. Forbes, in his \"History of Astronomy,\" praises Kepler as a crucial figure, stating that Kepler's contributions to astronomical knowledge were unparalleled. Forbes suggests that Kepler's work hinted at the concept of universal gravitation, which eventually led to the discovery of the law of gravitation. Forbes speculates that while the law of gravitation may have been discovered eventually by multiple individuals, if Kepler had not existed, it would have been challenging to find someone else capable of discovering Kepler's Laws.","original_text":"Professor Forbes is more enthusiastic. In his \"History of Astronomy,\" he refers to Kepler as \"the man whose place, as is generally agreed, would have been the most difficult to fill among all those who have contributed to the advance of astronomical knowledge,\" and again _ propos_ of Kepler's great book, \"it must be obvious that he had at that time some inkling of the meaning of his laws--universal gravitation. From that moment the idea of universal gravitation was in the air, and hints and guesses were thrown out by many; and in time the law of gravitation would doubtless have been discovered, though probably not by the work of one man, even if Newton had not lived. But, if Kepler had not lived, who else could have discovered his Laws?\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chunk"},
{"summary":"Chapter VI of Walter W. Bryant's book on Kepler delves into the multifaceted aspects of Johannes Kepler's life and work, illustrating his significant contributions to astronomy amidst personal and societal challenges. The chapter begins by noting the prohibition of Kepler's \"Epitome\" by the Congregation of the Index at Rome, a fate it shared with Copernicus's work, due to the contentious climate of the time, particularly surrounding Galileo's confrontations with the Church. Despite these challenges, Kepler was reassured that his scholarly pursuits would not be hindered as long as he remained discreet.\n\nKepler's intellectual curiosity led him to explore the nature of comets, proposing they traveled in straight lines with variable velocities and originated from the distant ether, akin to sea monsters emerging from the ocean depths. His engagement with Napier's invention of logarithms highlights his continual quest for knowledge and improvement in astronomical computations, despite the regret that such a tool had not been available to ease his earlier labors.\n\nThe chapter also touches on Kepler's personal life, particularly the harrowing ordeal of his mother, Catherine Kepler, who was accused of witchcraft and narrowly escaped execution through Kepler's intervention. This episode underscores the tumultuous times in which Kepler lived and the personal trials he faced.\n\nKepler's reluctance to leave Germany for England, despite financial struggles and an invitation from Sir Henry Wotton, reflects his deep connection to his homeland and his dedication to completing his Rudolphine Tables. His eventual journey to Vienna and the subsequent challenges in securing funds for his work illustrate the ongoing struggle for recognition and support that Kepler faced from the imperial treasury and other sources.\n\nThe publication of the Rudolphine Tables in 1627 marked a significant achievement for Kepler, introducing new methods for calculating celestial motions and contributing to the advancement of astronomy. However, his reliance on astrology for income, despite his personal reservations, highlights the complex relationship between scientific discovery and societal beliefs at the time.\n\nKepler's later years were marked by continued financial difficulties and the eventual patronage of the Duke of Wallenstein, which provided some stability. Yet, the burden of unpaid debts for the Rudolphine Tables and Kepler's untimely death in 1630 left his family in precarious circumstances.\n\nThe chapter concludes by reflecting on Kepler's legacy, emphasizing that despite the vast quantity of work he produced, not all of which was successful, his enduring contributions to astronomy, particularly his laws of planetary motion, underscore his significance in the history of science. His relentless pursuit of knowledge, coupled with his intellectual honesty and perseverance, cements his place among the great astronomers, whose discoveries laid the groundwork for future advancements in understanding the universe.\n\nWalter W. Bryant's portrayal of Kepler offers a comprehensive look at the astronomer's life, work, and enduring impact on the field of astronomy, presenting a nuanced picture of a man who navigated personal and professional challenges to contribute fundamentally to our understanding of the cosmos.","original_text":"Soon after its publication Kepler's \"Epitome\" was placed along with the book of Copernicus, on the list of books prohibited by the Congregation of the Index at Rome, and he feared that this might prevent the publication or sale of his books in Austria also, but was told that though Galileo's violence was getting him into trouble, there would be no difficulty in obtaining permission for learned men to read any prohibited books, and that he (Kepler) need fear nothing so long as he remained quiet.\n\nIn his various works on Comets, he adhered to the opinion that they travelled in straight lines with varying velocity. He suggested that comets come from the remotest parts of ether, as whales and monsters from the depth of the sea, and that perhaps they are something of the nature of silkworms, and are wasted and consumed in spinning their own tails. Napier's invention of logarithms at once attracted Kepler's attention. He must have regretted that the discovery was not made early enough to save him a vast amount of labour in computations, but he managed to find time to compute some logarithm tables for himself, though he does not seem to have understood quite what Napier had done, and though with his usual honesty he gave full credit to the Scottish baron for his invention.\n\nThough Eugenists may find a difficulty in reconciling Napier's brilliancy with the extreme youth of his parents, they may at any rate attribute Kepler's occasional fits of bad temper to heredity. His cantankerous mother, Catherine Kepler, had for some years been carrying on an action for slander against a woman who had accused her of administering a poisonous potion. Dame Kepler employed a young advocate who for reasons of his own \"nursed\" the case so long that after five years had elapsed without any conclusion being reached another judge was appointed, who had himself suffered from the caustic tongue of the prosecutrix, and so was already prejudiced against her. The defendant, knowing this, turned the tables on her opponent by bringing an accusation of witchcraft against her, and Catherine Kepler was imprisoned and condemned to the torture in July, 1620. Kepler, hearing of the sentence, hurried back from Linz, and succeeded in stopping the completion of the sentence, securing his mother's release the following year, as it was made clear that the only support for the case against her was her own intemperate language. Kepler returned to Linz, and his mother at once brought another action for costs and damages against her late opponent, but died before the case could be tried.\nA few months before this Sir Henry Wotton, English Ambassador to Venice, visited Kepler, and finding him as usual, almost penniless, urged him to go to England, promising him a warm welcome there. Kepler, however, would not at that time leave Germany, giving several reasons, one of which was that he dreaded the confinement of an island. Later on he expressed his willingness to go as soon as his Rudolphine Tables were published, and lecture on them, even in England, if he could not do it in Germany, and if a good enough salary were forthcoming.\n\nIn 1624 he went to Vienna, and managed to extract from the Treasury 6000 florins on account of expenses connected with the Tables, but, instead of a further grant, was given letters to the States of Swabia, which owed money to the Imperial treasury. Some of this he succeeded in collecting, but the Tables were still further delayed by the religious disturbances then becoming violent. The Jesuits contrived to have Kepler's library sealed up, and, but for the Imperial protection, would have imprisoned him also; moreover the peasants revolted and blockaded Linz. In 1627, however, the long promised Tables, the first to discard the conventional circular motion, were at last published at Ulm in four parts. Two of these parts consisted of subsidiary Tables, of logarithms and other computing devices, another contained Tables of the elements of the sun, moon, and planets, and the fourth gave the places of a thousand stars as determined by Tycho, with Tycho's refraction Tables, which had the peculiarity of using different values for the refraction of the sun, moon, and stars. From a map prefixed to some copies of the Tables, we may infer that Kepler was one of the first, if not actually the first, to suggest the method of determining differences of longitude by occultations of stars at the moon's limb. In an Appendix, he showed how his Tables could be used by astrologers for their predictions, saying \"Astronomy is the daughter of Astrology, and this modern Astrology again is the daughter of Astronomy, bearing something of the lineaments of her grandmother; and, as I have already said, this foolish daughter, Astrology, supports her wise but needy mother, Astronomy, from the profits of a profession not generally considered creditable\". There is no doubt that Kepler strongly resented having to depend so much for his income on such methods which he certainly did not consider creditable.\n\nIt was probably Galileo whose praise of the new Tables induced the Grand Duke of Tuscany to send Kepler a gold chain soon after their publication, and we may perhaps regard it as a mark of favour from the Emperor Ferdinand that he permitted Kepler to attach himself to the great Wallenstein, now Duke of Friedland, and a firm believer in Astrology. The Duke was a better paymaster than either of the three successive Emperors. He furnished Kepler with an assistant and a printing press; and obtained for him the Professorship of Astronomy at the University of Rostock in Mecklenburg. Apparently, however, the Emperor could not induce Wallenstein to take over the responsibility of the 8000 crowns, still owing from the Imperial treasury on account of the Rudolphine Tables. Kepler made a last attempt to secure payment at Ratisbon, but his journey thither brought disappointment and fatigue and left him in such a condition that he rapidly succumbed to an attack of fever, dying in November, 1630, in his fifty-ninth year. His body was buried at Ratisbon, but the tombstone was destroyed during the war then raging. His daughter, Susanna, the wife of Jacob Bartsch, a physician who had helped Kepler with his Ephemeris, lost her husband soon after her father's death, and succeeded in obtaining part of Kepler's arrears of salary by threatening to keep Tycho's manuscripts, but her stepmother was left almost penniless with five young children. For their benefit Louis Kepler printed a \"Dream of Lunar Astronomy,\" which first his father and then his brother-in-law had been preparing for publication at the time of their respective deaths. It is a curious mixture of saga and fairy tale with a little science in the way of astronomy studied from the moon, and cast in the form of a dream to overcome the practical difficulties of the hypothesis of visiting the moon. Other writings in large numbers were left unpublished. No attempt at a complete edition of Kepler's works was made for a long time. One was projected in 1714 by his biographer, Hantsch, but all that appeared was one volume of letters. After various learned bodies had declined to move in the matter the manuscripts were purchased for the Imperial Russian library. An edition was at length brought out at Frankfort by C. Frisch, in eight volumes, appearing at intervals from 1858-1870.\n\nKepler's fame does not rest upon his voluminous works. With his peculiar method of approaching problems there was bound to be an inordinate amount of chaff mixed with the grain, and he used no winnowing machine. His simplicity and transparent honesty induced him to include everything, in fact he seemed to glory in the number of false trails he laboriously followed. He was one who might be expected to find the proverbial \"needle in a haystack,\" but unfortunately the needle was not always there. Delambre says, \"Ardent, restless, burning to distinguish himself by his discoveries he attempted everything, and having once obtained a glimpse of one, no labour was too hard for him in following or verifying it. All his attempts had not the same success, and in fact that was impossible. Those which have failed seem to us only fanciful; those which have been more fortunate appear sublime. When in search of that which really existed, he has sometimes found it; when he devoted himself to the pursuit of a chimera, he could not but fail, but even then he unfolded the same qualities, and that obstinate perseverance that must triumph over all difficulties but those which are insurmountable.\" Berry, in his \"Short History of Astronomy,\" says \"as one reads chapter after chapter without a lucid, still less a correct idea, it is impossible to refrain from regrets that the intelligence of Kepler should have been so wasted, and it is difficult not to suspect at times that some of the valuable results which lie embedded in this great mass of tedious speculation were arrived at by a mere accident. On the other hand it must not be forgotten that such accidents have a habit of happening only to great men, and that if Kepler loved to give reins to his imagination he was equally impressed with the necessity of scrupulously comparing speculative results with observed facts, and of surrendering without demur the most beloved of his fancies if it was unable to stand this test. If Kepler had burnt three-quarters of what he printed, we should in all probability have formed a higher opinion of his intellectual grasp and sobriety of judgment, but we should have lost to a great extent the impression of extraordinary enthusiasm and industry, and of almost unequalled intellectual honesty which we now get from a study of his works.\"\n\nProfessor Forbes is more enthusiastic. In his \"History of Astronomy,\" he refers to Kepler as \"the man whose place, as is generally agreed, would have been the most difficult to fill among all those who have contributed to the advance of astronomical knowledge,\" and again _ propos_ of Kepler's great book, \"it must be obvious that he had at that time some inkling of the meaning of his laws--universal gravitation. From that moment the idea of universal gravitation was in the air, and hints and guesses were thrown out by many; and in time the law of gravitation would doubtless have been discovered, though probably not by the work of one man, even if Newton had not lived. But, if Kepler had not lived, who else could have discovered his Laws?\"","categories":["Astronomy and Astrology :: Description of the relationship between Kepler, Galileo, and Wallenstein","Astronomy :: Study of celestial objects and phenomena","Astronomy and Astrology History :: Description of the history of astronomy and astrology during Kepler's time","Scientific Methodology :: Description of scientific approach and methodology","Censorship in Astronomy :: Mention of book prohibition by the Congregation of the Index at Rome","Famous Astronomers :: Information about famous astronomers and their works","Mathematics :: Study of numbers, quantities, and shapes","Scientific Contributions :: Notable achievements in science","History :: Study of past events","Kepler's Life and Legacy :: Details about Kepler's life, death, and posthumous publications","Persons and Relationships :: Mentioned persons in the text","Legal Issues :: Legal proceedings mentioned in the text","Inventions :: Creation of new devices or processes","Travel and Locations :: Travel and locations mentioned in the text","History :: Record of past events and people"],"book_title":"Kepler","chapter":"CHAPTER VI.","authors":["Walter W. Bryant"],"typ":"chapter"},
